
                              5 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                      August 27, 2000 Sunday Final Edition

Glen Hnatiuk

SOURCE: The Province

SECTION: The Air Canada Championship; Pg. D15

LENGTH: 143 words

Birthday: May 15, 1965

Birthplace: Selkirk, Man.

Turned Pro: 1990

Career Wins: Buy.com Tour: 1992 Ben Hogan Gulf Coast Classic, 1995 NIKE Utah
Classic, 1996 NIKE Carolina Classic, 1999 NIKE Tri-Cities Open.

CAREER SUMMARY

1992-97 Buy.com Tour: Eight top-10 finishes helped him earn the 10th spot on the
1997 Buy.com Tour money list.

1998: PGA Tour

1999 Buy.com Tour: Best finishes: 1-NIKE Tri-Cities Open; T2-NIKE Lakeland
Classic, NIKE Carolina Classic, NIKE Knoxville Open; T4-NIKE Boise Open; T7-NIKE
Omaha Classic; T8-NIKE Oregon Classic; T9-NIKE Mississippi Gulf Coast Open; T10-
NIKE Fort Smith Classic.

2000 PGA Tour: Best finishes: T3-B.C. Open; T6-The International; Current
earnings and ranking: $418,972 US (83)

NOTES

Hnatiuk is currently 14th in driving accuracy percentage on the PGA Tour.

Profile of Glen Hnatiuk.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: GLEN HNATIUK

TYPE: Sports; Profile

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              7 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD.)

                            June 22, 2000, Thursday

Nike Balls and Tiger

SECTION: Pg.  2A

LENGTH: 126 words


Tiger Woods and his Nike ball set the 100th U.S. Open at Pebble Beach on fire
last weekend when he blazed a record-breaking 15-stroke win, breaking a
margin-of-win record for a major championship that's been around since 1862.
That's right, 1862. And while the win thrilled the people at Nike Golf, the
blaze hardly sent even small wafts of smoke here. A fast check of area golf
courses and golfing equipment shops showed minimal interest in Nike, Wood's new
ball of choice (and endorsement). However, Joel Puckett at Baltimore-Washington
Golf in Towson said there has been significant interest in the Nike ball since
Tiger's win. Before that, he said, they had been selling Nike balls, without
great success, since Nike first made them available.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 The Daily Record Co.


                              8 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                          May 22, 2000, Monday, FINAL

Price walks away from Nike

BYLINE: Calgary Herald

SECTION: Golf Weekly; D9

LENGTH: 308 words


The Nick Price-Nike-Chipshot.com saga has been proceeding at a dizzying pace.

The latest: After Nike said it was suing chipshot.com for using Price in ads
with him not wearing Nike-contracted shoes and clothes, Price said he was
through with Nike.

Price, who didn't wear Nike golf gear two weeks ago at the Byron Nelson Classic,
probably got mad and felt better, but was it good business to say goodbye to
Nike? He turned his back on close to $2 million in endorsement income for 2000,
not to mention performance bonuses of about $500,000.

Meanwhile, Nike's apparel and footwear catalogue for retailers features Tiger
Woods, of course, but Price is all over the thing, representing the ''classic''
designs.

- - -

The best example that the score is ultimately all that matters comes from none
other than Seve Ballesteros.

In the second round of the recent French Open, Ballesteros hit one tee shot so
far left that it cleared a lake and landed in the adjacent fairway, some 100
yards off target. From there, Ballesteros hit a 9-iron to six feet and made the
birdie.

''I hit it only three times. That's what counts,'' Ballesteros said.

This from the same man who, when asked what happened on a four-putt, once said,
''I miss the putt. I miss the putt. I miss the putt. I hole the putt.''

- - -

The only one who might have suffered more than Ernie Els and David Duval at the
Masters was Kieran Docherty, the caddie for Carlos Franco who tore the ACL in
his right knee during the third round at Augusta.

''Doc,'' who lives in B.C., may not be able to have surgery until the fall
because he's classified as a ''non- emergency.''

Along with carrying the bag the past five years, Docherty is the travel agent,
chauffeur and business manager for Franco, who speaks little English. Both speak
a little Japanese.


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              9 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 18, 2000

Spring time for athletes and Nike

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 127 words


Nike is launching hi-tech trainers called Nike Shox that put a spring in your
step. They go on sale in the US next month at about £100 a pair.

Nike Shox feature spring-like columns in the heels made from resilient foam
similar to that used in the noses of Formula One racing cars. The springs
produce a "trampoline-style" effect, Nike claims. "This industry needs a
lightning rod right now," says Dave Larson, Nike's director of brand
initiatives. Sales are flat, and retailers are looking for a kick-start. We're
doing what we can to jazz up the industry."

Nike's advertising campaign is built around a single word : Boing. Why Boing?
Because consumers used the word repeatedly during testing, Larson said. "We
figure one word sums it up."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                              12 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 12, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Nike Will Sell High-Tech Gear to Athletes

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 206 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore., May 11


Nike said this week that it was branching out from athletic shoes and clothing
by forming a division for high-technology sports gear that will introduce five
gadgets for athletes this year.

Nike is teaming up with S3 Inc. of Santa Clara, Calif., on the first product, a
portable audio player that will be introduced in July. Terms were not disclosed.
A heart-rate monitor, a speed-and-distance monitor, a compass and a two-way
radio are to be introduced by the holiday shopping season.

The move into electronics by the world's largest maker of athletic shoes comes
as Nike and its rivals struggle with slowing sales caused by a shift in consumer
tastes to dressier apparel. Just two days ago, Nike named its president and
chief operating officer, Thomas E. Clarke, 48, to lead new business ventures
aimed at improving operations.

"Nike's got this great brand," said Timothy M. Ghriskey, senior portfolio
manager at the Dreyfus Corporation. "Trying to leverage that brand into other
products makes sense."

John J. Shanley, an analyst at First Security Van Kasper, said he expected
demand for the new products to be limited. "I do not really expect this to
develop into a huge business opportunity for the company," he said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 9, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Nike President Given New-Venture Duties

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 121 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore., May 8


Nike Inc., the world's largest maker of athletic shoes, said today that it had
named its president and chief operating officer, Thomas Clarke, as president of
its new business ventures.

Nike's chairman and chief executive, Phil Knight, 62, will now also serve as
president of the company he co-founded, with help from the existing management
team, Nike said.

Mr. Clarke, 48, has been with Nike since 1980 and will begin his new job next
month. Mr. Clarke, who will continue to report to Mr. Knight, will focus on
growth initiatives like acquisitions or partnerships, said a company
spokeswoman. Sales at Nike and sporting-goods retailers have been hurt in recent
years by the growing popularity of dressier shoes.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 31, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

COLLEGE HOCKEY;
Nike to End Equipment Deal

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 183 words



BROWN

 Nike is terminating its contract to provide hockey equipment to Brown
University, fearing the school may try to make it comply with guidelines of a
group pushing for better working conditions in clothing factories.

Nike said it objected to being held to the code of conduct outlined by the
Workers Rights Consortium, of which Brown was a founding member, because the
company disagreed with the group's approach.

"The W.R.C. is based on a 'gotcha' monitoring technique," Simon Pestridge,
Nike's labor practices manager, said. He said members went to factories and
reported on what they found rather than work with factories to effect change. He
said the W.R.C.'s definition of a living wagewas too vague.

Brown notified Nike in late January that it wanted to renegotiate its contract
with the Beaverton, Ore., company, to require it to comply with Brown's code of
conduct.

Brown and Nike were in the middle of a three-year contract, in which Nike
provided the men's and women's hockey teams with skates, gloves, pads and other
goods under the Nike and Bauer labels.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                             March 10, 2000, Friday

A tick for scent firm

BYLINE: BERNARD LANE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 186 words


NIKE, the Greek goddess of victory, has smiled upon a Spanish perfume company in
a trademark war with the US footwear giant.

Yesterday the High Court cleared the way for Spain's Nike perfumes to return to
the Australian market.

They would not be mistaken as products of the footwear and clothing behemoth,
Nike Inc, the court held.

In 1993 Campomar, whose trademark Nike perfume dated back to 1940 in Spain,
marketed the Nike Sport Fragrance in Australia.

It was positioned in pharmacies near other sport fragrances, including an
offering by Adidas, Nike Inc's rival.

Nike Inc took a successful trademark action in the Federal Court, saying
Campomar was taking advantage of its goodwill and reputation.

Upholding Campomar's appeal yesterday, the High Court said there was "no
reasonable probability of (consumer) confusion".

Nike Inc had not marketed perfumes under the Nike trademark, the court noted,
and in the mid-1980s a Nike Inc executive had rebuffed a joint venture
suggestion from Campomar, saying "we do not believe perfume and cosmetic
products are part of this company's image".

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              17 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                     April 15, 2000 Saturday Final Edition

Musician claims Nike don't know Diddley

SOURCE: Reuters

SECTION: Entertainment; Pg. C7

LENGTH: 181 words

DATELINE: New York

Legendary rock star Bo Diddley has sued Nike Inc. for using his name and image
without permission.

The 71-year-old musician, whose real name is Ellas McDaniel, sued Nike late
Wednesday, alleging Nike made hundreds of thousands of dollars in revenues from
sales of T-shirts bearing Diddley's name, likeness and the inscription: You
Don't Know Diddley, without authorization.

"This is a clear case of the big bully picking on the little guy. Apparently
Nike really doesn't know Diddley," said Margo Lewis, president of Talent Source,
Diddley's management company.

Vada Manager, a senior official with Beaverton, Ore.-based Nike, said the
company is negotiating with Diddley's lawyers and has authorized offering a
royalty payment of between $10,000 and $15,000. He said he did not think
Diddley's lawyers had received the offer yet.

John Rosenberg, one of Diddley's lawyers said negotiations had broken off in
March.

"We rejected their proposal ... We've had no communication with them in about a
month. We stand by the lawsuit and we intend to proceed," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                             March 10, 2000, Friday

Nike only gets sniff of victory in name battle

LENGTH: 211 words


GIANT American sporting footwear manufacture Nike yesterday emerged with half a
victory in its legal battle with a Spanish firm which presumed to market its
perfume as Nike Sport Fragrance.

The High Court in Canberra yesterday allowed an appeal by the firm Campomar
Sociedad Limitada against a Federal Court order which would have struck out its
trademark registration of the Nike name for its perfumes, soaps and cosmetics.

But Campomar still faces an injunction barring it from marketing its sport
fragrance in a manner which exploits Nike's high public profile. This follows
similar litigation between Nike and Campomar in the United Kingdom and Hong
Kong. Nike's failure to achieve outright victory stems from some fundamental
problems.

The High Court said Nike was not an invented word.

In Greek mythology, Nike was the goddess of victory. Nike was also the name of a
family of surface-to-air guided missiles developed by the US.

Campomar's predecessor company registered the name Nike in Spain for its
perfumes and essences in 1940. The name has been registered in various other
countries at various times ever since.

In contrast, the Nike company was first incorporated in the US in 1969 and sold
its shoes and sportswear in Australia from 1972.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              19 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                                November 1, 2000

Nike street soccer tournament

SECTION: City news; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 216 words


KICK up dust and "Go for Gold" to win exciting Nike prizes to the tune of
RM24,000 in the Lycos Asia - Nike Street Soccer 2000 tournament this
weekend.

To be held at the Nike Play Zone, Padang Utara, Petaling Jaya, the
contest, from 7.30am to 6.30pm, will be played in three categories -
Under-14, Under-16 and Open.

The champions stand to win Nike products worth RM10,000 and a challenge
trophy with runners-up getting Nike products worth RM8,000 and third and
fourth place winners taking home products worth RM6,000.

Entrance fee is RM40 per team or free entry with a minimum purchase of
RM200 in a single receipt from any Nike store. Four players make up a
team.

The first 20 teams to register will get free Nike T-shirts. Log on to
www.lycosasia.com.my for details of rules and regulations.

Teams can pay in cash or cheque but registration must reach the
organisers by tomorrow.

All payments must be made to: Nike Sales (M) Sdn Bhd, Nike Street
Soccer, LycosAsia (M) Sdn Bhd, Lot S1, 2nd Floor Centrepoint, Bandar
Utama, 47800 Petaling Jaya.

Street soccer is played on a pitch, measuring 20 metres by 14 metres
with the goal post only 1.3m by 4m wide.

The ball is slower and softer than the standard size 5 ball, and is
played up to head level only.


LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2000 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                              20 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                   September 21, 2000, Thursday, Home Edition

WORTH NOTING: News from around the tours;
 Inside Golf

BYLINE: Glenn Sheeley, Staff

SOURCE: CONSTITUTION

SECTION: Sports; Pg. 8F

LENGTH: 393 words

Trevino: Nike got good deal

Some are gaping at Tiger Woods' new contract with Nike, worth somewhere between
$ 85 million and $ 100 million for five years.

Others, including Lee Trevino, are trying not to yawn.

When you take in Woods' entire endorsement and money-generating power, $ 20
million a year is no reason for bold headlines. For a golfer, yes, but Woods
jumped past that level long ago and now commands Muhammad Ali-like appeal
worldwide.

"Cheap," Trevino said this week about Tiger's Nike figures. "They got him
cheap."

Golf World calculates that when the Nike contract begins in August next year,
Woods' total endorsement earnings will surpass $ 54 million a year --- without
tournament winnings, appearance fees and investments.

That number is consistent with a comment made recently by Woods' agent, Mark
Steinberg, who said his client makes $ 1 million a week, even if he doesn't
play.

The Nike deal reportedly also includes a share of the profits for Woods.

"It wouldn't surprise me somewhere down the line if he doesn't negotiate his own
television contract," Trevino said. "ABC comes to him and says, 'OK, we've got
12 tournaments we're televising. We're going to give you $ 20 million, and you
guarantee us you'll play 10 of them."

Hooters points championship

The Peachtree City-based NGA Hooters Tour has its own Tiger Woods dominator this
year --- 26-year-old Chad Campbell of Andrews, Texas, with eight victories and $
186,000 in earnings. Campbell, the tour's points champion the past two seasons,
takes the lead into next week's Naturally Fresh Foods Points Tour Championship
at Whitewater Country Club. . . . This week's Safeway LPGA Golf Championship in
Portland, Ore., is the final qualifying event for the Oct. 6-8 Solheim Cup at
Loch Lomond, Scotland. . . . Tony Navarro, known for his caddie duties with Greg
Norman, has been toting the bag of Augusta's Charles Howell.

Rejuvenated Elkington back

Steve Elkington, who underwent arthroscopic hip surgery Aug. 11, returned as
rapidly as close friend Norman had recommended. Elkington is playing this week
in the Westin Texas Open and is in the field for next week's Buick Challenge at
Callaway Gardens, where he is a two-time champion. "I feel like a 15-year-old
again," Elkington said. "I haven't had this much strength and energy in years."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution


                              21 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                         May 11, 2000, Thursday, FINAL

Nike diversifies into high tech

SECTION: Business; D3

LENGTH: 153 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore.


BEAVERTON, Ore. -- Sneaker and sportswear maker Nike Inc. is diversifying into
high-tech sports gear to offer devices for athletes like a digital audio player
and heart-rate monitoring devices.

The athletic shoe maker said Wednesday it has created a division called Nike
Techlab after several years of study.

''Keeping the athlete in mind, Techlab will pioneer products that fuse sports
and technology for the benefit of today's digital athlete,'' Nike Equipment
vice-president Clare Hamill said.

The first of five new products is a digital audio player that will be in stores
in July and was produced in collaboration with S3's Diamond Multimedia division
-- makers of Rio Audio digital players.

Nike said four other products would be in stores for the Christmas, including
real-time speed-distance and heart- rate monitoring devices, a digital compass
and handheld sport communication products.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      April 27, 2000, Thursday, Edition 1

ADIDAS, NIKE SUE WAL-MART

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 206 words




BEAVERTON, Ore. (Reuters) - Adidas America Inc., the U.S. unit of the German
sportswear giant, has joined arch rival Nike Inc. to file suit against Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., alleging the retailer sells counterfeit brand-name T- shirts at its
wholesale club stores.

Adidas America, its parent Adidas-Salomon AG, Adidas International BV of the
Netherlands, and Nike filed suit against Wal-Mart in U.S. federal district court
in New York, claiming the world's largest retailer has been selling several
styles of counterfeit Adidas and Nike T-shirts at its Sam's Club wholesale club
stores.

Nike also alleged that Wal-Mart has been selling other counterfeit Nike products
at Sam's Club.

Adidas and Nike become the fifth and sixth major sportswear companies to sue
Wal-Mart for selling counterfeits in the last two years, the two companies said
in a statement.

In 1998, Tommy Hilfiger brought two actions against Wal-Mart for selling
counterfeit goods. Wal-Mart paid out an unprecedented $6.4 million (U.S.) to
settle those lawsuits.

In November, 1998, Polo Ralph Lauren, Nautica and Fubu lodged similar claims.

On the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, Wal-Mart closed down 69 cents at $59.


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              23 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                    September 15, 2000, Friday, Home Edition

Swoosh: Nike deal to hit $ 100 million

BYLINE: Glenn Sheeley, Staff

SOURCE: CONSTITUTION

SECTION: Sports; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 175 words

After blowing away his competition and winning three consecutive major
championships this summer, Tiger Woods' new contract with Nike appears to be
following the same theme.

In other words, it's very major.

The agreement is worth a reported $ 100 million, and Bob Wood, president of the
Nike Golf division, said Woods signed a five-year extension Thursday.

His agent, Mark Steinberg, told the Associated Press that the contract "
compensates Tiger not just for what he's done with Nike, but what he has done
for golf and sports."

Woods' first contract with Nike, signed when he turned pro in 1996, was said to
be worth about $ 40 million --- then a landmark amount for a golfer. A $ 100
million deal could qualify as the largest contract in sports marketing history.

Woods will be heavily involved with TV ads and marketing when Nike, as expected,
jumps into the golf-club market. Already, he has jacked up sales of the
company's Tour Accuracy ball, which he used during record wins in the U.S.
Open, British Open and PGA Championship.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Tiger Woods

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution


                              24 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 15, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Nike's Profit Increases 10%, Beating Wall St. Forecasts

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore., Sept. 14


Nike Inc. said today that its first-quarter profit rose 10 percent, beating Wall
Street forecasts.

The company, based in Beaverton, posted net income of $210 million, or 77 cents
a share, for the three months ended Aug. 31, compared with $200 million, or 70
cents a share, in the period a year earlier.

Revenue rose 5 percent, to $2.6 billion from $2.5 billion a year earlier.

Analysts had expected Nike to post earnings of 74 cents a share, according to
First Call/Thomson Financial.

Before the company announced the results, its shares closed at $38.50, down 12.5
cents.

"We're off to a good start for the fiscal year with accelerating revenue growth
and increasing profitability," said Philip H. Knight, Nike's chairman and chief
executive. "I'm particularly pleased by the strength of our international
businesses, which generated double-digit revenue growth, despite significant
currency weakness in Europe."

He said the weakness in the euro put pressure on Nike's profitability, although
it was able to meet its goals.

Nike's closely watched worldwide "futures" -- orders for goods to be delivered
over the next five months -- totaled $3.1 billion, equal to the year-earlier
level. Nike said that had the dollar remained constant, futures orders would
have increased 4 percent.

United States revenue rose 2 percent, to $1.4 billion, compared with $1.3
billion in the period a year earlier. Athletic footwear revenue fell 1 percent,
to $935 million. Apparel revenue fell 2 percent, to $326 million. Equipment
revenue rose 55 percent, to $91 million. Quarterly revenue for the European
region rose 6 percent, to $776 million. Footwear revenue rose 10 percent and
apparel revenue rose 1 percent.

Revenue in the Asia-Pacific region grew 26 percent, to $241 million. In constant
dollars, regional revenue rose 20 percent. Revenue in the Americas region rose
15 percent, to $150 million.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                             April 17, 2000, Monday

Nike trips over Diddley

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 121

LENGTH: 159 words


LEGENDARY rock star Bo Diddley is suing sports-gear manufacturer Nike for using
his name and image without permission.

The 71-year-old, whose real name is Ellas McDaniel, alleges Nike sold T-shirts
bearing Diddley's name, likeness and the inscription "You Don't Know Diddley"
without authorisation.

He is seeking unspecified compensatory and punitive damages.

"This is a clear case of the big bully picking on the little guy. Apparently
Nike really doesn't know Diddley," Margo Lewis, president of Diddley's
management company, says.

Nike senior official Varda Manager says the company is negotiating with
Diddley's lawyers and has authorised the offer of $16,809 in royalties and
$25,214.

John Rosenberg, one of Diddley's lawyers, says negotiations were broken off in
March. "We rejected their proposal," he says. "We've had no communication with
them in about a month. We stand by the lawsuit and we intend to proceed."REUTERS

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              28 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 23, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Nike Is Sued Over Golf Balls

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 6; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 96 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 22


Tiger Woods endorses Nike Tour Accuracy golf balls in ads, but he really plays
with custom-made balls unavailable to everyday players, a public-interest group
asserted today in a lawsuit. Nike acknowledged that the balls Woods uses for his
swings, which produce 300-plus-yard drives, have a slightly harder inner and
outer core than the balls sold to the public.

In the suit filed today in United States District Court in San Francisco, a
nonprofit group called Public Remedies Inc. said that Nike, based in Beaverton,
Ore., was engaging in unfair business practices.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Crain's Cleveland Business

                           September 25, 2000, Monday

Stupidity, not creativity, marks Nike ad

BYLINE: Brian Tucker

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 494 words


What could those folks at Nike have been thinking when they approved that
slasher commercial for the Olympics?

If you watched some of the early days of NBC's coverage of the Summer Olympics,
you were treated to a commercial that showed a woman runner starting to undress
when she is startled by an evil, chainsaw-wielding, masked intruder.

The would-be murderer chases the woman, clad in running shorts and a sports bra,
out of her house and into the woods, but he clearly cannot keep up with her as
she runs away into the night. The message, I suppose, is to get in shape and
save your life.

What numbskull at Nike thought that was cute, especially during a
family-oriented sporting event such as the Olympics? NBC pulled the spots
because of complaints from viewers, but why did they have to wait until they
received the complaints?

Do you suppose nobody at NBC, during the network's own review of that
commercial, wasn't disgusted enough to question its propriety? Or was the money
just too good?

Nike spokesman Scott Reames told Newhouse News Service that the ad was meant to
appeal to young, athletic consumers. "We really feel that people who get Nike
will get the ad," the agency quoted him as saying.

People who "get" Nike will "get" the ad? I've purchased many Nike products over
the years, and have been mostly pleased. But the only thing I "get" when I think
of that ad is nauseous.

CINCINNATI DESERVES congratulations for having the determination to change its
method of paying the city's public school teachers. For the first time, teachers
will be paid based on performance and not seniority.

How much simpler could it be? Certainly, years of experience help when teachers
confront familiar problems, but we've all had teachers (or watch in frustration
as our sons or daughters do) who use the same curriculum year in and year out,
simply going through the motions, counting the years to retirement.

Cincinnati's new system would enable a teacher who does excellent work year
after year to reach a top pay level of $62,500 in eight years. Under the current
seniority-based system, a teacher would not reach the top pay level of $56,230
until he or she has 27 years of service.

The evaluation system was developed after a year-and-a-half of collaboration by
teachers, their union and the district's administrators. The teachers will be
evaluated, every five years, on 16 standards, such as class preparation and
creating a learning-conducive environment.

Predictably, Cleveland Teachers Union president Richard DeColibus said it
wouldn't work here because the district has too many vacancies on the staff.
That was the same reason he used to defend the union's demand for twice the
salary increases that the district's other unions agreed to in recent contract
talks.

I can't help but think that if a teacher knew he or she could make more than
$62,000 in just eight years, many of those openings might disappear.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Crain Communications, Inc.


                              30 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                       May 4, 2000 Thursday Final Edition

Nike at odds with U.S. universities

SOURCE: The Edmonton Journal

SECTION: Sports; Pg. D6

LENGTH: 141 words

DATELINE: Washington, D.C.

Nike has withdrawn millions of dollars in financial support from three
universities in the past three weeks. The schools -- the University of Michigan,
the University of Oregon and Brown University -- recently have joined a
student-led group that wants to impose tougher standards concerning wages and
working conditions in Nike's overseas factories, which some critics have called
sweatshops.

Nike chairperson Phil Knight's decisions, college officials say, constitute a
form of retaliation against the institutions for their stances on the labour
issue. Nike had contracts under which it outfitted all of Michigan's varsity
athletic teams and Brown's men's and women's hockey teams. Knight, who has given
millions of dollars to Oregon, had planned to donate $30 million toward an
$80-million renovation of the football stadium.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Sports; Brief

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 22, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Protesting Sweatshops: Who Is Right?

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 138 words



To the Editor:

Re "Nike's Power Game" and "Good Propaganda, Bad Economics" (Op-Ed, May 16): I
commend the University of Oregon for arriving at its decision to join the Worker
Rights Consortium thoughtfully and democratically. The ensuing withdrawal by
Phil Knight, Nike's chief executive, of a $30 million contribution was an
I'll-take-my-ball-and-go-home reaction to an important issue.

If companies like Nike are interested in working to alleviate poor working
conditions in certain countries, then they should engage in serious discussions
with the Worker Rights Consortium.

But if Nike doesn't, perhaps Mr. Knight could still demonstrate his dedication
to improving workers' rights by taking the $30 million and using it to raise
some workers' wages and benefits.

SCOTT CLAIR
Chicago, May 17, 2000


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ward Schumaker)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 7, 2000, Tuesday

SPORTS LETTERS: NIKE POWER

BYLINE: Paul Cheney

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 175 words


Sir: I was very surprised on reading Nick Harris's article about the new Nike
sponsorship of Manchester United (4 November) to see no mention of the "anti
-sweatshop" movement which has been putting pressure on Nike recently. Perhaps
in Britain this is still not a factor, but over here in the United States it has
become an important issue.

It is alleged that, through subcontractors, Nike employs people in Third World
countries for very low wages with terrible working conditions. It is also
alleged that although Nike has the capacity to insist on better conditions for
these workers it is usually only concerned with getting the cheapest rate it can
on the production of its equipment.

United might come to regret an association with Nike in which the club is locked
in by contract. As you say, Nike can break the deal any time it likes if
United's performance gets worse, but you make no mention of the reverse being
true when Nike's name becomes more associated with Dickensian working
conditions.

PAUL CHENEY

By e-mail

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd


                              33 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                    November 8, 2000 Wednesday Final Edition

Nike, Man U think big

SOURCE: News Services

SECTION: Sports; Soccer Notebook; Pg. A62

LENGTH: 342 words

Beaverton, Ore.,-based Nike will pay nearly $675 million to outfit English
soccer champion Manchester United from 2002 to 2015.

Nike and Manchester United will split any profits, over and above the licensing
fees, from Manchester licensing, sales and retail operations.

The agreement will allow Nike to sell clothes with the Manchester United logo.
The club has the highest revenues of any soccer team. Nike also will create a
subsidiary to take over operation of the team's retail stores.

British newspapers say it's the richest sponsorship deal in sports history,
eclipsing the contract between Nike and the Brazilian national team of $164
million for 10 years.

NO OFFER BUT . . .

Barcelona and AC Milan have dismissed reports that the Spanish soccer giant has
offered $3.2 million to the Italian team as an incentive to beat Leeds United in
their European Champions League game this week.

Barcelona needs Milan to beat the English side to have a chance of staying the
Champions League.

A Barcelona sports newspaper quoted Milan's Spanish striker Jose Mari Romero as
saying: "I'm one of those people who thinks that giving someone money to win is
not illegal. If [Barcelona chairman Joan] Gaspart wants to give us something, we
will receive it with glee. But nobody has offered us any money and I don't think
they will."

RACISM NETS FINES

Two Italian soccer clubs were fined Tuesday because their fans booed black
players in Serie A competition last weekend.

Verona was fined $10,575 when league officials ruled that its fans on Sunday
taunted Internazionale's Clarence Seedorf, a black Dutch midfielder.

Bari was fined $3,525 because its fans booed AC Parma's Cameroon striker Patrick
Mboma, who scored the winning goal.

Chorus-like racial chants are becoming more and more common at Italian soccer
games.

WATFORD CHARGE HALTED

Struggling Sheffield Wednesday halted Watford's move toward a return to the
Premier League and ended its unbeaten streak with a 3-1 win at Vicarage Road
Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Sports; Column

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 14, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

PUBLIC LIVES

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON with David Rohde

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 651 words



Bo Diddley Sues Over Nike T-Shirts

The rock star BO DIDDLEY says that Nike, the clothing and athletic-shoe company,
didn't know Diddley about T-shirts bearing the legend "You Don't Know Diddley."

In a lawsuit filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, the 71-year-old
musician accused Nike of selling thousands of T-shirts bearing the four-word
line and his picture in the last year without his permission. In 1989, Nike
signed a two-year agreement that led to television commercials with Bo Diddley,
whose real name is Ellas McDaniel, and the athlete Bo Jackson. Nike also made
T-shirts with the "You Don't Know Diddley" slogan.

But Mr. McDaniel's lawsuit says that the agreement expired in 1991. The company
contacted his managers last year about making more T-shirts, but the two sides
could not come to terms. Mr. McDaniel said that nevertheless, Nike began selling
the T-shirts in catalogs and on the Internet, and ignored a cease-and-desist
letter from his lawyer. A call to a Nike spokesman was not returned yesterday.

"This is a clear case of the big bully picking on the little guy," said MARGO
LEWIS, the president of Talent Source Ltd., Mr. McDaniel's management company.
"In the past, many entertainers of the 50's and 60's found themselves, for
whatever reason, unable to protect their rights. We are no longer operating in
that environment."

Patricia Duff Takes the Stand

PATRICIA DUFF was questioned yesterday about what she reported and did not
report to the authorities during her marriage to the billionaire RONALD O.
PERELMAN.

In her first day on the witness stand at their child-custody trial, one of Mr.
Perelman's lawyers, CHARLES A. STILLMAN, questioned her about police reports
that she had filed over the years.

Specifically, he asked her about an incident in Los Angeles, when she called the
police and reported that a man staying in a hotel room next to hers was
following her and taking pictures, and a 1997 call she placed to the police in
Fairfield, Conn., where she had a house.

In that call, she described marks on the door to a locked room where she kept
documents relating to her divorce. She suggested to the police that the door
could have been removed from its hinges and replaced.

In a later exchange about the security guard who worked in her house, Mr.
Stillman noted that Ms. Duff had approved the security company that had been
hired. She objected, saying she had been forced to choose a security company
from a list provided by Mr. Perelman.

"I would have chosen a different company, not a company that specialized in
surveillance and investigation," she said. "I don't think you can begin to
imagine if you had someone in your midst 24 hours a day, on the street, in your
car invading your privacy 24 hours a day."

She was also asked about a $650,000 pearl necklace she reported missing to the
Fairfield police in January 1998.

She said she filed that report after she and an appraiser from Sotheby's went to
a bank where she believed it was in a safe deposit box. But the necklace was not
there. She later told the police she was not sure whether it had been in the
vault, in her house in Connecticut or somewhere else. The necklace has never
been found.

She was also questioned about why she had not reported the abuse she said in
court papers that she had endured during her marriage to Mr. Perelman. Ms. Duff
testified that she had reported the incidents to the Manhattan district
attorney's office.

"We do not comment on complaints unless there is a resulting arrest," said
BARBARA THOMPSON, a spokeswoman for the office. "There are many reasons why a
complaint may not result in an arrest. For example, after an investigation it
may be determined that no crime was committed or that the evidence is
insufficient to prove any charges."

Ms. Duff is expected to testify again today.   JAMES BARRON with David Rohde


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: BO DIDDLEY; PATRICIA DUFF

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                            January 9, 2000, Sunday

CLICK! SHOP

BYLINE: BY EDWARD MAZZA

SECTION: LIFELINE; Pg. 15 CLICK

LENGTH: 323 words

NIKE CARVES NEW NICHENot enough sneakers to choose from at the store?Nike is
hoping to lure demanding shoppers with its Nike ID service, an online store that
allows users to customize their shoes.It's not exactly building a shoe from
scratch - the options consist largely of choosing between a running shoe and a
cross-trainer, playing with the color scheme and choosing an "ID" - an
eight-character word, phrase or nickname to be printed across the back.On the
other hand, the site is well-designed and eye-catching, as one might expect from
marketing-savvy Nike. The idea is somewhat intriguing and the site is easy to
use, if somewhat slow to load on a standard phone connection. (Nike warns that
the initial download time can be up to 10 minutes).On the screen, an image of
the shoe changes with each click of the mouse, adding or subtracting colors and
highlights. The chosen iD also appears across the back of the prototype
sneaker.The shoes are priced at about $10 above regular retail value - $80 for
the Air Famished cross-trainer and $85 for the Air Turbulence running shoe, for
example - and take about three weeks to manufacture and ship. Both are available
in men's and women's models.The company says each shoe is made only after the
order is placed. It may seem strange to buy a shoe without trying it on, but the
cachet of having a personalized shoe is worth it to many shoppers. Nike's return
policy is quite reasonable. A return form will be enclosed with each iD order.
Consumers simply note the reason for the return and pack the product - in its
original package, if possible. Products can be shipped back to nike.com or
returned to any NikeTown or Nike Factory Store.One note: The shipping fee will
be refunded only if Nike screws up the order - so if you want to change size,
you have to pay the shipping three times (to you, to them and back to you)
unless you take the product to a Nike store.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.


                              37 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Black Nike T-shirt led to youths' arrest

                                October 20, 2000


A BLACK Nike T-shirt gave police the vital clue in tracking down three youths
suspected of stealing 25 vehicles for joyrides over the last few months.

One of the youths, an 18-year-old, had provided the investigation team with
valuable video footage.

Senior staff sergeant Kumar Vellasamy, one of the team members, said: "The
suspect was caught on closed-circuit security camera wearing the T-shirt."

The youth was also spotted wearing the same T-shirt at various crime scenes in
the Jurong area and when loitering in carparks with his accomplices, aged 21 and
22.

All three are believed to have started their crime spree from July.

The police said they had used duplicate keys to break into the vehicles --
mainly old cars and vans -- at public carparks in Jurong, Boon Lay and Chua Chu
Kang housing estates.

They took the vehicles for joyrides. If a stolen car ran out of petrol, they
would abandon it and steal another one.

But it was the end of the road for them on Wednesday, when they were rounded up.

A team of 11 officers from the Jurong Police Division arrested them at 11 am
near a Jurong West block of flats.

The stolen vehicles have all been recovered by the police.

The police team's investigations led them to a petrol kiosk in Jurong West, one
at which nearby residents had informed them was frequented by the three youths.

And it was at the kiosk that police officers found the video footage of the
18-year-old culprit.


SECTION: Home; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 245 words

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A suspect was caught wearing the black Nike T-shirt on closed-circuit
security camera.

                Copyright 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


                              39 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                           September 5, 2000 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

Briefs

BYLINE: Lisa Allen, Annabel Hepworth, Chelsey Martin, Jacob Ramsay, Sam Strutt,
Mark Skulley

SECTION: NEWS; Briefs; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 544 words


Report condemns Nike

Olympic sponsor Nike has been forced to defend its position on human rights
abuses following the release of a report into workplace relations at its
Indonesian factories. The 25-page report Like Cutting Bamboo, sponsored by
Community Aid Abroad Oxfam, claimed Nike workers in Indonesia were paid $A2 a
day and threatened with violence if they joined a trade union. The report,
released at NSW Parliament yesterday, claimed Nike workers had been told they
would never be promoted if they were involved in the union. Nike strongly
rejected the allegations yesterday. Lisa Allen

Action on Clifford trio

Australia's corporate watchdog has commenced proceedings in the Supreme Court of
NSW against former directors of the Clifford Corporation group, which collapsed
late in 1998. The Australian Securities and Investments Commission is seeking
civil penalty orders against Mr Barrie Loiterton, Mr Ian Robert Hall and Mr Ian
Sapier. ASIC wants fines of up to $200,000 for each of an alleged 65 breaches of
the Corporations Law. They also allege that Mr Loiterton engaged in insider
trading in Clifford shares in 1997. Annabel Hepworth

Fraud crackdown

A crackdown on welfare fraud saved $14.4 million in taxpayer funds last
financial year, the Minister for Community Services, Mr Larry Anthony, said
yesterday. He expressed outrage at some of the 110 cases of fraud uncovered last
financial year, saying some people had used the names of dead children to claim
payments. Likening the scenario to the book Day Of The Jackal, Mr Anthony said
welfare cheats had visited cemeteries to find the names of children who had been
born at roughly the same time as themselves and then adopted their identities.
Chelsey Martin

Army overhaul required

The Federal Government needs to spend a further $4.5 billion on the Australian
army in order to ensure it is capable of waging war, according to a report
released yesterday. The parliamentary committee report found structural problems
in the army and said it lacked purpose and consistency. Defence Minister Mr John
Moore is considering a radical overhaul of the army, following a parliamentary
report which found only three of its nine brigades were ready for action. Jacob
Ramsay

High ratings for Qld

International ratings agency Standard & Poor's yesterday confirmed Queensland's
robust financial position, declaring the State's balance sheet to be
"extraordinarily strong". Despite predictions in the recent Queensland Budget
that the economy would slow over the coming year, the agency said the State's
ratings outlook was stable. It affirmed its AAA long-term local and foreign
currency ratings, its AA-plus long-term foreign currency rating and its A1-plus
local foreign currency short-term ratings. Sam Strutt

Cut Vic payroll tax: AIG

The Bracks Government should direct all of its promised $400 million in business
tax cuts into reduced payroll tax, according to the Australian Industry Group.
The AIG said in its submission to the review of State taxes that payroll taxes
should be cut from 5.75 per cent to 4.85 per cent by 2003/2004. The Bracks
Government has promised to reduce State business taxes by $400 million by
2003/2004. A tax review will report by mid-December on how this should be
achieved. Mark Skulley

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2000 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 17, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Nike's Profit Rises 17%, Beating Estimates

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 178 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore., March 16


Nike Inc. said today that its profit rose 17 percent in its most recent quarter,
beating Wall Street's estimates, even though sales were slightly lower.

The company, based in Beaverton, said it earned $145.3 million, or 52 cents a
diluted share, in the period, which ended Feb. 29 and was the third quarter of
its fiscal year. A year earlier, Nike earned $124.2 million, or 44 cents a
share.

Its profit was better than the 50 cents expected by Wall Street analysts
surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. Nike's stock rose $5.125, or 16
percent, to $38 on the New York Stock Exchange.

Revenue for the quarter fell 1 percent to $2.16 billion from $2.17 billion a
year earlier. European revenues fell 7 percent to $558.5 million, hurt by a
rising dollar against the euro.

In the United States, footwear revenue grew 4 percent to $858.9 million, though
athletic apparel revenue declined 12 percent to $251.8 million.

The company said worldwide future orders for footwear stood at $3.9 billion at
the end of the period, up 4 percent from a year earlier.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                          February 9, 2000, Wednesday

NIKE FORECASTS DISAPPOINTING SALES AS OUTLETS FOR SNEAKERS DWINDLE

BYLINE: BY LEE GOMES

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 4

LENGTH: 29 words


Nike Inc says sales in coming quarters will be lower than expected because fewer
footwear stores are now available to sell its sneakers; Nike shares fall 19% on
the news (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              45 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            The Press (Christchurch)

                           January 27, 2000, Thursday

A site for newbies _ www.arriveat.com/Newbies Nike iD _ www.nike.com/idstart
Pimple Portal _ www.pimpleportal.com Stone & Ward _ www.stoneward.com

BYLINE: ARMSTRONG David  MARSHALL Robin

SECTION: FEATURES; COMPUTERS; Pg. 29; CONNECTED SITED

LENGTH: 428 words


I've seen several good websites and books dedicated to helping techno-
illiterate people as they begin their journeys on the Net and use basic PC
functions, and this is up with the best of them. Many absolute-beginners' guides
make the mistake of assuming certain competencies, such as operating a mouse, or
use kiddy-talk. Not this one. Several optional learning paths are available to
suit most users, and a good Netlingo glossary of technical words is included.
Diligent learners are then offered useful programs to download from the Net,
guidance to set up their own website, and links to a selection of recommended
sites. -- David Armstrong

.

Nike iD -- www.nike.com/idstart

Sick of those dull, company-issue Nike colours for running shoes? Want your name
emblazoned on the back of your shoes for the slower joggers to see? If you have
the Shockwave plug-in on your browser, you can design your own cross-training or
running shoes and personalise them with a message up to eight letters long. It's
kinda fun but you are limited by the colours and the combinations of colours you
can select from -- nothing in neon! --Robin Marshall

.

Pimple Portal -- www.pimpleportal.com

For some poor unfortunates, this could well be the best site on the Web. Pimple
Portal, a site sponsored by the makers of anti- pimple products Retin-A Micro,
offers all the resources needed to create a better lifestyle for your skin.
Included are medical explanations of the origins of the evil zits, acne control
tips, general hints on improving your complexion, and an Ask the Expert section
where dermatologists and make-up artists give advice. It's all presented in a
light- hearted, hip style that -- praise be -- does not patronise. With the
Shockwave plug-in, you can have fun playing Face Invaders, shooting tubes of
Retin-A at the zits.--David Armstrong

.

Stone & Ward -- www.stoneward.com

Design and PR company Stone & Ward know how to have fun at work -- if their
website is anything to go by. Even if you're not interested in hiring their
services, their website is still pretty cool. All of the fancy stuff downloaded
pretty quickly on my NT machine. Almost every movement of the mouse brings up
some interesting effects. You can also tour the building, and pictures of people
working in their offices are shown. There's a gallery, too, of advertising work
the company has done for other firms -- some are static ads, others show TV
clips, if you have the right software.--Robin Marshall

--------------------

CAPTION:

GRAPHIC: [Home pages]

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 Fairfax New Zealand


                              47 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                           October 26, 2000, Thursday

NIKE RESCINDS AD, APOLOGIZES TO DISABLED PEOPLE

BYLINE: BY ANN GRIMES

SECTION: Section B; Page 20, Column 1

LENGTH: 46 words


Nike Inc has withdrawn a print-magazine ad campaign for new running shoes,
following complaints from disabilities-rights groups; the ads for Nike ACG
Dri-Goat, referred to people with disabilities as 'drooling and misshapen'; the
ad agency was Wieden + Kennedy; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

GRAPHIC: Photograph

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              49 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                             April 28, 2000, Friday

NIKE INC

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 6

LENGTH: 31 words


Nike Inc has ended talks with the University of Michigan to renew a six-year
licensing and funding contract over disagreements over Nike's labor standards
and human-rights policies (S)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              50 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                           February 14, 2000, Monday

MARKET CHANGES PLACE DEMANDS ON NIKE INC

BYLINE: BY PHILANA PATTERSON

SECTION: Section B; Page 13B, Column 1

LENGTH: 33 words


Nike Inc chairman Phil Knight says the company is changing along with shifts in
the US marketplace and its growth overseas; says he feels Nike has not gotten
its message across to shareholders (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              51 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                   September 5, 2000, Tuesday, Metro Edition

BRIEFLY: Olympians urged to visit shoe factories

BYLINE: From News Services

SOURCE: CONSTITUTION

SECTION: Sports; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 114 words

Olympic athletes in Sydney were urged Monday to visit Nike factories in
Indonesia that activists contend exploit workers.

Activists renewed a campaign against the international sportswear giant,
releasing a report that documents claims of intimidation and harassment of union
workers and women in companies contracted to make Nike shoes in Indonesia.

Tim Connor, author of the ''NikeWatch'' report, said Nike was failing to protect
workers' rights in its contract factories in Indonesia.

In response, ''No company has done as much in terms of labor rights, code of
conduct enforcement, age and wage improvements as we have,'' said Vada Manager,
Nike's global issues manager.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution


                              52 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

Nike, new hero, 'new' sport all win: Triathlon makes its debut on Olympic stage
and Simon Whitfield basks in its spotlight

BYLINE: WAYNE SCANLAN

SECTION: Olympic Games; D1 / BREAK

LENGTH: 815 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY


If Simon Whitfield had a great day in Sydney, so did Nike and the sport of
triathlon.

''It was Canada's first gold medal at the Olympics,'' said Nike spokesman
Michelle McSorley. ''And Nike's first gold medal.''

Nike already has sponsorship contracts with Victoria's big-name triathletes,
Whitfield, 25, and Carol Montgomery, 34. They also have England's Simon Lessing
in their stable.

It's a safe bet that the American mega-company will do further business with
Canada's new sporting hero, more serious business.

Whitfield and his sport have both been elevated by the events of the weekend.
The toast of the entire Canadian team, Whitfield has been receiving cheers just
walking down the street in Sydney.

He is the perfect icon for a sexy ''new'' sport. Young. Tanned. Cool. Eloquent.
Just a little off the wall. The story goes that while a boatful of Olympic
triathletes were somberly being carted across the Sydney Harbour for their race,
Whitfield and Germany's Stephan Vuckovic were clowning around on the boat,
putting each other in headlocks, giving each other ''noogies.''

Apparently, it doesn't hurt to be loose on race day. Whitfield won gold;
Vuckovic, silver. The more sombre entrants were down the list. Wait till the
next Olympic triathlon - there will be 50 clowns going to the start line.

Thousands of Spectators

Over-all, the sport could not have had a bigger blast on a world stage, unless,
perhaps, the U.S.A. and Australia had performed better, to feed the hype.
Hundreds of thousands of spectators lined the course route, next to the Sydney
Opera House and Botanical Gardens. Among the crowd, reportedly, were Chelsea
Clinton, daughter of the U.S. president, and swimming icon Mark Spitz.

In short, triathlon was the place to be on the opening weekend. In its first
Olympic competition, triathlon was handed the keys to the Games. With a course
that showcased Sydney Harbour and the famous Opera House, triathlon was the
first medal sport, handpicked by the Aussies because of their deluded dream of
sweeping the women's event and scooping another medal in the men's event.

Though Michellie Jones took silver in the women's event, their other women were
shut out as a Swiss, Brigitte McMahon won the gold. The top Aussie man was Miles
Stewart, in sixth place.

''Australia prides itself on being the best triathlon nation in the world,''
said Paul Regensburg, CBC's triathlon analyst and the director of high
performance for Triathlon Canada.

A day after Whitfield's gold medal, the host nation was doing its best to claim
Whitfield for their own. His father was born in Australia and Whitfield went to
school and raced here as a teenager.

One newspaper called Whitfield ''a dinki-di Australian, almost.''

Aside from Australia's disappointment with the results, triathlon will take this
publicity and run with it. The world looked in and found a very sexy sport, with
athletes who excel at three different disciplines while confronting disaster.

Most Exciting Thing on TV

Canada's two best female triathletes lost their Olympic medal dreams to bike
crashes, while Whitfield himself danced around a couple of near-smashups.  ''The
winner is sometimes the one who manages to have the fewest negative things
happen,'' Regensburg said.

Both events culminated in fascinating sprints to the finish. Tests of steel
wills and iron lungs.

''To keep a two- hour sport interesting is not easy,'' Regensburger said. ''And
we're getting E-mails from people saying it was the most exciting thing they'd
ever watched on television - people who have never seen triathlon before.''

Perhaps no nation will prosper more from triathlon's weekend in the Sydney sun
than Canada. The Canadian Olympic delegation has been swamped with E-mails from
back home, enthusing about the sport and a prospective cereal-box hero. They are
writing to congratulate Whitfield, but also the Canadian women who suffered bike
crashes, Montgomery and Ottawa's Sharon Donnelly.

''The races showed the kind of emotional swings that are part of triathlon,''
Regensburg said. ''Kids are writing to say they are going to start triathlon
tomorrow.''

Whitfield is practically a swimming, riding, cycling commercial for Triathlon
Canada. He came out of the developmental Kids of Steel program. Last spring,
Whitfield and Regensburg opened up a national training centre in Victoria. The
centre has attracted 45 triathletes in the past six months.

How many more will sign on today to ''triple their fun'' now that Whitfield has
delivered one of the greatest moments in Olympic history?

''There's a big party back in Canada,'' Regensburg said. ''The profile of the
sport has been incredible.''

Here's hoping triathlon's ride to mainstream doesn't ruin its innocence.
Triathletes have always had a bit of the lunatic fringe in them, and therein
lies the charm.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CP Color Photo: ROBERT F. BUKATY, AP / Simon Whitfield with gold medal:
''No one said I had a shot. Triathlon magazine said I would fade. I thought:
'Bring it on.' ''

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                            May 10, 2000, Wednesday

NIKE PUTS ITS SWOOSH ON MP3 PLAYERS, WALKIE-TALKIES, HEART MONITORS

BYLINE: BY KHANH T L TRAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2

LENGTH: 59 words


Nike Inc, hoping to lure demographically powerful 'Generation Y' consumers, is
moving beyond shoes and sportswear into a variety of high-techp products; hoping
to repeat the success of its ergonomic running watches, Nike will unveil a line
of sports-focused electronics, ranging from a digital audio player to a portable
heart-rate monitor; photos (L)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

GRAPHIC: Photograph

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              56 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 27, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Nike Sued Over Song in Ad

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 104 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 26


Nike Inc., the world's biggest maker of athletic shoes, and its advertising
agency were sued by the singer Billy Paul for using his song "Me and Mrs. Jones"
in a commercial. Mr. Paul seeks at least $1 million in lost licensing fees,
according to the suit filed in Federal District Court in Los Angeles. Wieden &
Kennedy, Nike's ad agency, was also named as a defendant. "Me and Mrs. Jones"
was the No. 1 song on the Billboard Top 40 chart for three weeks in 1972. Mr.
Paul says that Nike, without his consent, has run ads featuring his voice
singing the song. The company could not be immediately reached for comment.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                       August 23, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL

Nike creates women's division

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: Business; D8

LENGTH: 109 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore.


Sneaker industry leader Nike is forming a division to focus on designing and
marketing women's footwear, apparel and equipment.

The division will be headed by Clare Hamill, the former head of Nike's equipment
division, the company said Tuesday.

''Nike's women's business is one of our major growth accelerators in the U.S.
and internationally, making it one of our company's top priorities,'' Nike
chairman Phil Knight said.

Knight said growing interest in the professional basketball and women's soccer,
along with the popularity of female Olympians such as Marion Jones, has
increased demand for women's sports and fitness products.


LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 2, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

GOLF: ROUNDUP;
WOODS WILL HIT NIKE

BYLINE: By CLIFTON BROWN

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 145 words


In a move that had been anticipated for several weeks, Tiger Woods will use the
Nike golf ball on a long-term basis, starting with the United States Open later
this month in Pebble Beach, Calif.

Woods's representatives at IMG announced the change yesterday. After using
Titleist golf balls since turning professional, Woods switched to the Nike ball
for the first time in competition last month at the SAP-Deutsche Bank Open in
Germany. Woods finished third in Germany, and he used the Nike ball again at the
Memorial Tournament last weekend, which he won easily by five strokes.

"I understand the impact I can have, but it really doesn't matter if I'm not
swinging the club well," Woods said at the Memorial.

"I need to keep playing solid golf. It's a different ball, but the best time to
make a change is when you're playing well."   CLIFTON BROWN

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 21, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

NBC in Sydney: The Judges Frown;
That Nike Ad

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 154 words



To the Editor:

I was stunned and appalled by the Nike ad featuring the American track runner
Suzy Hamilton sprinting away from a chain-saw-wielding maniac (Advertising
column, Sept. 19). I could not believe that this was a commercial for Nike and
not a trailer for a slasher movie.

The column quoted a spokeswoman for the agency that created the spot for Nike as
saying the ad was an attempt to "present fundamental truths about sports in new
and contemporary ways." I fail to see how there is anything "new and
contemporary" about violence against women.

Nor is there any truth in the punchline of the ad: "Why sport? Because you'll
live longer."

Women who are the victims of assault or who are killed by men with weapons will
not be protected even if they are in good shape and wearing their Nike sneakers.


JENNIFER BRYAN
Northampton, Mass., Sept. 19, 2000

The writer is a psychologist.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            August 12, 2000 Saturday

Intrawest resorts to market Nike shoes

SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS: CANADIAN; NEWS BULLETINS; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 57 words


Nike Inc.'s Nike All Conditions Gear unit signed a four-year contract with
Vancouver-based Intrawest Corp. to introduce its footwear and apparel lines at
10 Intrawest resorts in the United States and Canada. Nike, based in Beaverton,
Ore., said it plans to open All Conditions Gear shops in three Mountain
Adventure Centers and other initiatives.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2000 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           September 5, 2000 Tuesday

Human-rights groups want athletes to see Nike factories

SECTION: SPORTS; OLYMPIC NOTEBOOK; Pg. S3

LENGTH: 1029 words


Olympic athletes at Sydney were urged yesterday to visit Nike factories in
Indonesia that activists contend exploit workers.

Activists renewed a campaign against the international sportswear giant,
releasing a report that documents claims of intimidation and harassment of union
workers and women in companies contracted to make Nike shoes in Indonesia.

The Community Aid Abroad-Oxfam Australia report, based on interviews conducted
with industrial union organizers in Indonesian factories, said workers were
threatened with violence if they tried to join unions; that union members were
fired for small mistakes and women were intimidated into not applying for leave
by being required to undergo humiliating medical examinations.

Tim Connor, the author of the NikeWatch report, said Nike was failing to protect
workers' rights in its contract factories in Indonesia.

"Recently, Nike has been pushing the line that it has reformed its human-rights
practices," Connor said. "The truth is that [there has been] only very minor and
grudging reforms.

"Nike is the biggest company in the sportswear industry . . . if anyone can
afford to pay workers enough to eat, enough to feed their children, Nike is the
company," Connor told a news conference in Sydney.

In response to Connor's report, Nike said it had undertaken to raise age
requirements and wages for workers in Indonesia, improved factory conditions and
published factory monitoring reports as part of reforms to improve conditions
for its Asian workers.

"No company has done as much in terms of labour rights, code of conduct
enforcement, age and wage improvements as we have," said Vada Manager, Nike's
global issues manager.

"We uphold the Olympic ideal of human dignity," the statement said. "Those
campaigning to eliminate sweatshops are addressing the right issue, but
targeting the wrong company."

Connor said other sportswear manufacturers were equally responsible for
exploitation of workers, but Nike was being targeted because it was the largest.

Nike, based in Beaverton, Ore., has 708 factories operated by contract companies
and employing about 550,000 people.
   Canadian Olympic high jumper Mark Boswell lost $7,000 (U.S.) yesterday when
he left his wallet at Brisbane Airport after arriving in Australia.

Boswell, 22, believes he left his wallet in a luggage cart at the airport but he
didn't realize it was missing until he was more than halfway to the Gold Coast,
where the Canadian track and field team is training.

Police said the wallet was found about two hours later a few suburbs away from
Brisbane airport, minus the cash.

"I had it in my trolley and I guess I must have left it," said Boswell, a native
of Brampton, Ont. "It's got all my stuff in it, passport, money, credit cards,
everything."

Boswell, who won silver last year in the world championships, is a medal threat
in Sydney.

Boswell flew into Australia early yesterday morning from Berlin, where he won
the high jump at the Golden League international athletics meet.

The money was earnings from a recent track meet in Greece.

Although suffering from jet lag, Boswell drove back to the airport to try to
find the wallet, without success.

"It's a downer, but you know, I've just got to start refocusing and get ready
for the Games," he said.
   A Romanian horseman will miss out on the Sydney Olympics after Austrians
accused him of stealing his horse.

Viorel Bobau needed only to finish a trial in Germany to attain the points
necessary to represent his country in Sydney, but was stopped at the
Hungary-Austria border and accused of stealing his stallion, Carnaval.

Bobau, who missed out in Barcelona in 1992 when his horse fell sick, said:
"After 25 years of work and sacrifice, it's sad to see your dreams die for the
simple sin of being Romanian."
   How do you know the Olympics are being held in Sydney? Everyone has his hand
in your pocket.

This lighthearted exchange has become common among Sydney residents in advance
of the games this month as prices rise in anticipation of a gold rush from
hundreds of thousands of foreign visitors. Only the sex industry vows no rise in
prices.

Taxi companies joined the rush last week, announcing a 10-per-cent surcharge
during the Sept. 15 to Oct. 1 event. They had asked city authorities for a
20-per-cent surcharge to encourage as many drivers as possible to work during
the games.

"For sure it's literally an opportunity to charge higher prices," said Gail
Kennedy, spokeswoman for the Australian Consumers' Association. "It smacks of
profiteering."

Higher charges for hotel rooms were introduced at the start of this month and
restaurants are poised to cut back on menu sizes, charge higher prices and
impose cancellation fees if diners do not turn up after making a reservation.

But many workers have secured so-called Olympic bonuses. They include train and
bus drivers, security guards, hotel workers, casino staff and telecommunications
staff.

"It's the practical reality of a big event, and what bigger event [is there]
than the Olympics?" Kennedy said. "It's based on what they think the market can
bear. In terms of food, maybe picnics are the way for visitors to go."

A spokesman for Sydney's Department of Fair Trading advised consumers to alert
the department if they were hit with a charge they had not been warned about.
   The drug ban of Olympic bycycling champion Andrea Collinelli will stand, and
he can forget about competing in the Sydney Olympics.

"Nothing will change," Italian Olympic Committee president Giovanni Petrucci
said. "Collinelli . . . will have to give up [his attempt to go to Sydney]
seeing that we had promised seriousness on the doping front."

Collinelli won the track pursuit gold in Atlanta. He had been seeking
reinstatement since a laboratory in Germany found last week that there were
traces of the banned painkiller lidocaine and the stimulant fentermine in a
blood test from the Italian cycling track championships in July.

Collinelli followed his Olympic gold with a pair of world championships in the
4,000-metre team pursuit. He has repeatedly said his food or drinks had been
laced with the banned substances.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2000 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                    November 28, 2000, Tuesday, Home Edition

eSPORTS

BYLINE: John Manasso, Staff

SOURCE: CONSTITUTION

SECTION: Sports; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 621 words

> SAVE TIME ONLINE: All stories and urls in this column are one click away on
ajc.com/enews

$ 150 Nike gets its own Web site
Nike launched a Web site Monday for its newest profit-making machine: Nike Shox.
The company says the technology for this sneaker has been 16 years in the
making. If that's the case, why doesn't it do the running for you? You also can
order a pair online --- where the $ 150 price tag also might be good for a jolt.

www.nike.com/nikeshox

New WVU coach gets 'Net profits
How far has the Internet come in the past few years? Articles reporting West
Virginia's compensation package for former Clemson offensive coordinator Rich
Rodriguez included "$ 189,000 from guaranteed earned income from radio,
television, Internet and endorsements." His future may include a lot of time in
chat rooms for that money.
www.wvu.edu/ sports

LOOK WHO'S TALKING: 11.28.00
TODAY'S TOP CHAT
Houston Comets forward Sheryl Swoopes (below), a four-time WNBA champion and
two-time Olympic gold medalist. Swoopes was the MVP and Defensive Player of the
Year in the WNBA last season.
2 p.m. at wnba.com

OTHERS LIVE ONLINE CHATS
NBA chat with Sports Illustrated's Marty Burns
1 p.m. at cnnsi.com

Wisconsin senior forward Mark Vershaw
1:25 p.m. at espn.go.com

North Carolina State forward Damien Wilkins
2 p.m. at espn.go.com

Southwest Missouri State senior guard Jackie Stiles
6 p.m. at espn.go.com

ESPN college basketball analyst and former Duke power forward Jay Bilas takes
questions during the Duke-Illinois game
9 p.m. at espn.go.com

LIVE ONLINE EVENTS
PRO BASKETBALL: The Hawks are in Washington for a 7 p.m. game with the Wizards.
An Audio League Pass is needed to listen to it or any of the other nine games on
tonight's NBA schedule.
nba.broadcast.com/audiolp/index.asp

PRO FOOTBALL: Just give him the microphone. Jets receiver Wayne Chrebet is
interviewed exclusively by Joe Beningo, "The Chrebet.com Insider."
4 p.m. at www.chrebet.com

COLLEGE BASKETBALL: No. 1 Duke faces Illinois in Greensboro, N.C., in the
ACC-Big Ten Challenge.
9 p.m. at goduke.com

HIGH SCHOOL HYPERLINKS
It's a fact: The Internet is one of the places to go to follow high school
sports. Today, eSPORTS begins an occasional feature to help you keep up with
your favorite sport, athlete or team this winter. Try these for starters:
ajc.com/sports/highschool --- Daily updates with news, features, metro and state
rankings, athletes of the week and opinion polls.
ghsa.net --- Keeps you up-to-date during the playoffs in all sports.
personal.atl.bellsouth.net/atl/a/m/
amock/wrestling.htm --- Includes links to sites for metro teams and a search
tool for finding more.
sportsfansofamerica.com/links/high_schools/
georgia.htm --- Includes links for basketball, swimming and wrestling.
www.ghssca.com --- The Georgia High School Swimming Coaches Association's site
promotes swimming and diving in Georgia and around the U.S.
www.usadiving.com/diving_highschool.htm --- Keeps up with high school and
college divers across the country.
E-MAIL US MORE: Got a favorite site that covers high school sports? E-mail the
address to jmanasso@ajc.com.
BY THE NUMBERS
The top 10 teams being tracked by users of Sports Sleuth's targeted e-mail
service:
1. Dallas Cowboys
2. New York Yankees
3. San Francisco 49ers
4. Green Bay Packers
5. Pittsburgh Steelers
6. Chicago Bears
7. Washington Redskins
8. Atlanta Braves
9. Los Angeles Lakers
10. Miami Dolphins
sports.sleuth.com

> ON ACCESS ATLANTA: Share your grief or hope for the future with Falcons fans
at accessatlanta.com/shared/sports/nfl/falcons/forum.html

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Sheryl Swoopes / MIKE FIALA / Associated Press

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution


                              63 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                              June 2, 2000, Friday

WOODS SWITCHES TO NIKE BALL FROM TITLEIST FOR US OPEN

SECTION: Section C; Page 10, Column 6

LENGTH: 40 words


Golfer Tiger Woods will formally switch to the Nike Tour Accuracy ball at the
upcoming US Open, from Fortune Brand Inc's Titleist; the change officially ends
a marketing conflict between Woods's top two golf sponsors, Nike and Fortune (S)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              65 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 16, 2000

Nike protesters hunt Tiger

BYLINE: Bryan Cameron

SECTION: Pg. 88

LENGTH: 314 words


TIGER WOODS had to be escorted through an angry crowd of former Nike workers who
ambushed him in the lobby of the exclusive Bangkok hotel where he is staying for
the Johnnie Walker Classic.

About 100 angry protesters, who claimed they were still waiting to receive
compensation after being sacked by Nike in September, apparently targeted Woods
because he is sponsored by the giant company to the tune of GBP 70million over
five years.

Woods said: 'They have their own opinions and they have the things they want to
try and accomplish and you can't stop them from doing that.That's their right
and so be it.' Woods, whose mother Kultida is from Thailand, had been expecting
a warm welcome in the country where he has been hailed as a hero and accorded
honorary citizenship. He was welcomed by his mother and hundreds of fans when
his private jet touched down but was confronted by the protesters on arrival at
his hotel.

The 24-year-old confessed that the relentless expectations of media and fans was
hard to cope with - especially in the wake of his amazing hat-trick of major
titles this year.

'When I first played in Thailand as an amateur in 1994 I did envisage being this
successful as a player, but not all the hysteria around it off the golf course,'
said Woods.

'No-one can ever prepare you for that. All you know as a kid is that you want to
hit golf shots and try to win tournaments and beat your heroes.

No-one ever thinks about the other side of it.

'I know everyone wants a piece of me but it's a responsibility and I accept it
and I never lose sight of my main objective, which is to play the best I can and
win golf tournaments.' Woods has already claimed nine titles this season, and
victory on Sunday - in an event which counts as the first towards the 2001 Order
of Merit - would see his earnings for 2000 top the GBP 7m mark.


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: WOODS: 70M NIKE DEAL GOLF TO THE POINT: FORMER NIKE WORKERS IN BANGKOK
PICTURE: AP

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                              66 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           August 24, 2000, Thursday

Nike sued over 'unfair' Woods ball endorsement

BYLINE: DAVID KRAVETS

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 65

LENGTH: 353 words


TIGER Woods' secret has been revealed in a lawsuit claiming his sponsor Nike was
engaging in unfair business practices.

Even though he endorses Nike Tour Accuracy golf balls in TV and magazine ads,
Woods really plays with custom-made balls unavailable to everyday duffers, Nike
acknowledged after being sued in federal court in San Francisco.

Nike said yesterday the balls Woods uses for his monster drives have a slightly
harder inner and outer core than the balls sold to the public.

"Those two elements are slightly firmer than the marketed ball," revealed Mike
Kelly, marketing director for Nike Golf.

Kelly said it's common practice in the golfing world to sell the public
different products than what the pros really use.

"It's an industry practice to make minor specification changes to golf products
-- irons, putters and golf balls -- for tour players," he said.

"Slight specification and modifications need to be made to their equipment for
their game."

In the suit filed in the US District Court in San Francisco, a non-profit group
called Public Remedies Inc claimed Nike, based in Beaverton, Oregon, was
engaging in unfair business practices. It asks that Nike's "ill-gotten gains" be
restored to the public.

"Tiger Woods does not play the Nike Tour Accuracy golf ball but instead plays
one with a different composition and performance characteristics specially made
for him ... and not available to the general public," the lawsuit said.

Other leading names in golf say their customers get exactly what their pros
endorse.

Joe Gomes, a spokesman for Titleist, said its players use the same products they
advertise. And if a player uses a "tweaked" version of a club, he said, a
consumer could order it.

"We are very particular about our advertisements. We don't make any claims that
cannot be substantiated in both golf balls and clubs," Gomes said.

Callaway Golf said that if one of its golf pros says he uses a certain club,
that identical club is available retail.

Tiger's agent, Mark Steinberg, did not immediately return a call requesting
comment on the lawsuit.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              67 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 16, 2000, Saturday

GOLF: WOODS SETS SIGHTS ON RECORD DEAL

BYLINE: Doug Ferguson In New York

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 265 words


TIGER WOODS is on the verge of setting a new benchmark - an endorsement contract
with Nike worth about pounds 70 million, believed to be the richest in sport.

Woods and Nike have agreed to a five-year extension to his existing deal that
will pay him an average of about pounds 14 million a year, according to a source
close to the negotiations.

Woods' agent, Mark Steinberg, described the deal as an "outstanding contract",
but declined to discuss specifics, saying only that: "It compensates Tiger not
just for what he's done with Nike, but what he has done for golf and sports."

Bob Wood, Nike's golf president, was also circumspect: "We've worked on this for
18 months. It's a pretty creative contract. It has a lot of aspects to it, but
the effort was worth it. It's not often you get a chance to work with somebody
who's the best in the world at what they do. Working with and being associated
with Tiger Woods has created an incredible amount of positive energy about Nike
Golf and Nike."

Woods has represented Nike since turning professional in 1996. In just four
years he has raised his game to a level few could have imagined, and attracted a
record number of TV viewers along the way.

With three tournaments to play, his nine victories this year are the most in one
US PGA Tour season since 1950 and he is on course to shattered the all -time
season scoring average set by Byron Nelson in 1945.

Earlier this year, Woods - who is still only 24 - signed an endorsement deal
with Buick worth pounds 20m over five years and carries its logo on his bag.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd


                              68 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                       April 14, 2000, Friday, Edition 1

SPOTLIGHT BO DIDDLEY SUES NIKE

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT

LENGTH: 269 words




Legendary rock 'n' roll star Bo Diddley has sued sneaker giant Nike Inc. for
using his name and image without permission. The 71-year-old musician alleges
Nike made hundreds of thousands of dollars in revenues from sales of T-shirts
bearing Diddley's name, likeness and the inscription "You Don't Know Diddley"
without authorization. The suit seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive
damages, alleging that a 1989 agreement giving Nike permission to use Diddley's
likeness expired after two years, but Nike has continued selling the T-shirts.

RETURN OF SIBS: Tarragon Theatre has scheduled a second run of the sold-out
 spring show Sibs, written and performed by Diane Flacks and
 Richard Greenblatt. Sibs will play from Oct. 19 to Nov. 12, at
 Buddies in Bad Times Theatre. Tickets may be obtained from the
 Tarragon box office at 416-531-1827.
 A touring production of the award-winning musical Rent will visit
 the Pantages Theatre, 244 Victoria St., from June 6 to 18. Rent
 was at the Royal Alex Theatre in 1998.

 CONCERT ANNOUNCEMENTS: Steely Dan arrives at Molson Amphitheatre June 27 in
promotion of
 a new album Two Against Nature. Tickets are $86, $66 and $46 for
 reserved seats, $32 for lawns. On sale through Ticketmaster,
 Monday at 10 a.m. The on-sale date for the Aug. 16 Red Hot Chili
 Peppers / Stone Temple Pilots double bill at the Amphitheatre has
 been postponed indefinitely while the Peppers finalize details of
 their Canadian tour. Tickets will go on sale at a later date, to
 be announced shortly.

 WITH FILES FROM THE STAR'S WIRE SERVICES


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              69 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                           September 29, 2000, Friday

Mambo gears up to do it with Nike

BYLINE: Ben English

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 368 words


MAMBO is negotiating with footware giant Nike to form a distribution alliance in
the United States.

The anti-establishment leisurewear icon, bought out by Gazal Corp last March,
has held talks with Nike executives visiting Sydney for the Olympic Games.

Gazal managing director Michael Gazal said a Nike alliance was being considered
as a means to break into the tough US retail market.

"We had one of the Nike guys ring up and ask about it," he said. "It was one of
the Nike guys out here for the Olympics. He visited one of the stores."

Mr Gazal ruled out any sale of Gazal's marketing rights to Mambo in the US.
Instead, the two are pursuing a joint venture.

"They could be a good distribution partner. Nike would have to be one of the
giant trademarks. It is like a mega giant.

"Obviously, getting into bed with someone like Nike we will have to weigh up all
the issues carefully."

But Mr Gazal said he was also considering establishing Mambo in America using
internal resources.

"Down the track we may decide we may want to have our own business in the United
States. We might send someone from Australia to live there and do it ourselves.

"Another option is a joint venture with someone like Nike but there are a number
of different ways we could do it."

Mr Gazal said he was compiling a masterplan to develop a global distribution for
Mambo, beginning in the UK and Europe before taking on the US.

And a float may be in the pipeline, he said.

Mr Gazal said the Mambo purchase in March had transformed Gazal Corp from a
brand renter to a global brand owner.

"It's a lot different from being an Australian licensee," he said.

"We are really focusing on the Australian operation, the European operation and
getting our international sourcing structure ready to supply world markets.

"It's an exciting time for us. We just have to make sure we have the right
business plan and execute it properly."

Gazal paid Mambo creator Dare Jennings and his partner Andrew Rich $8.7 million
worth of Gazal shares, making them the largest shareholders outside the Gazal
family with an 8 percent stake.

Mr Jennings remains Mambo's creative director and has taken a seat on the Gazal
board.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              70 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                November 3, 2000

United scores record £303m deal with Nike

BYLINE: Robert Lea

SECTION: Pg. 42

LENGTH: 172 words


MANCHESTER UNITED has signed a world record sponsorship deal with US sports kit
giant Nike which will see the Premiership leaders and former European champions
receive £303 million over 13 years.

Nike, however, is reserving the right to pull out of the alliance after six
years or alter the amount of its payments if United fails to get into Europe or
falls below halfway in the Premiership.

The deal, due to start when the current deal with Umbro ends in the summer of
2002, means Nike will become United's kit supplier and sponsor and gain the
worldwide rights to manufacture, market and sell all Unitedbranded replica kit,
footwear, clothing and equipment .

The deal means United will receive £133.4 million over the first guaranteed six
years of the deal plus 50% of net profits generated by Nike from merchandising.
While Nike reserves the right to quit the deal after the initial six years, it
said over the 13 years United should receive $ 438.5 million or £302.9 million
at current exchange rates.


LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                              71 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 15, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Woods' latest trophy: $100 million Nike deal

BYLINE: Harry Blauvelt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 328 words


Tiger Woods will boost his bank account by about $ 100 million
with an expected five-year contract extension with Nike in what
is believed to be the richest endorsement deal in sports history.

Nike's new deal with the world's No. 1 golfer could be finalized
as early as today. It has been predicted that Woods might someday
become sports' first $ 1 billion man.


Neither Bob Wood, president of Nike Golf, nor IMG's Mark Steinberg,
the golfer's agent, would discuss details. Other sources close
to the negotiations put the figure at roughly $ 100 million.

"I would assume it's one of the largest contracts in sports marketing
history," Steinberg said. "It's been in the works for a long
time."

Steinberg added that the contract fairly compensates Woods, not
just for what he's done for Nike but for golf in particular and
sports generally.

"In terms of golf, if it's not the No. 1 deal ever done, I'm
not aware of a bigger or better one for everybody," Wood said.
"Whatever he's making from us, he's worth it."

The contract starts in one year, when the old one expires. Woods
signed his first Nike deal in 1996 for an estimated $ 40 million
over five years.

The one major difference between the new and old contracts is
that Woods now is contractually bound to play the Nike Precision
Tour Accuracy Ball. He's been using a Nike ball, without a contract,
since the Deutsche Bank Open that he won in May.

In advertising parlance, Woods is a head-to-toe Nike man. He wears
Nike footwear, clothing, gloves and hats. And now uses the ball.

The contract includes everything but clubs and the bag.

Woods, 24, who has endorsement deals with 11 companies, has won
nine tournaments this year, the most on the PGA Tour since 1950.
The wins include three major championships.

"Tiger is very, very significant for us as a company, not just
as a golf company," Wood said. "That is taken into account in
the new deal."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, color, Reuters; Product placement: Woods wears Nike while on
tour.

                      Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              72 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           September 25, 2000 Monday
                                  Late Edition

Mo flash for your dash as the shoe wars hot up;
Olympics News

BYLINE: Andrew Hornery and AAP

SECTION: OLYMPICS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 474 words


When the 100 metres gold medallist, Maurice Greene, flung his flashy shoes into
the crowd on Saturday night, Nike's legion of marketing executives who have
descended on Sydney couldn't have wished for a better publicity stunt.

Not since Michael Johnson's gold runners at Atlanta has a pair of shoes
attracted so much attention. And shoes that attract publicity are catching on
among other athletes.

Marion Jones has been sporting a silver pair of Nikes in Sydney. Cathy Freeman
has her yellow, black and red Nikes the equivalent of the Aboriginal flag on her
feet.

But it was Greene's shoes covered in the United States stars and stripes, with
goldplated soles and spikes which have been attracting the headlines.

They were specially created for Greene and carry Nike's "swoosh" trademark in
bright red perfect for television cameras and newspaper photographers to focus
on.

The move was yet another attempt by Nike to stake out its Olympic territory. The
sportswear giant paid $8 million in December to become an official sponsor.

But it faces stiff competition from archrivals Reebok and adidas.

Adidas is spending $8 million on an intensive television advertising campaign
during the Olympics. While the company is not an official sponsor of the Sydney
Games, its marketing director, Mr Rob Mills, said there was nothing stopping it
from using the Olympics to increase the brand's exposure.

"Consumers love the Olympics because it's a fantastic celebration of sports," he
said. "We make a lot of equipment which is used in the events held during the
Games.

"There is a tremendous upsurge of interest in sport during the Olympics; the
exposure you can generate for your brand during this time is enormous.

"We have a legitimate right to talk about our commitment to sport and athletes.
We are not breaking any rules or regulations. We're not ambush marketing. But at
the same time we aren't going to sit on our hands during a major sporting
event."

Adidas has taken over the exclusive Shore school during the Games. It has become
the company's hospitality and media centre for the many athletes it sponsors
around the world. When one of them does well adidas holds press conferences in
its own media centre in an effort to make the media pick up on its "branding"
activities.

According to Greene, hurling his shoe into the crowd was all about giving
something back to the fans for their support.

"You know the fans here are so great ... I was just overwhelmed with them
greeting me the way they did," the world's fastest man said yesterday.

"I wanted to give them something because me giving them the show wasn't enough,
so I gave them my shoe."

But Greene quipped that he might want the shoe back from Ben Harper, a 20yearold
Wagga jeweller, when told it could be valued at $US100,000 ($186,567).

"If it's worth that much then I think I want it back," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: One for the fans ... a Maurice Greene gold medalwinning shoe.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                    August 23, 2000 Wednesday Final Edition

People

SOURCE: The Province

SECTION: Money; Pg. A30

LENGTH: 279 words

SHOPPERS' LOYALTY KEY

Dave Ferguson, president and chief executive of Wal-Mart Canada Inc., will make
his first public-speaking appearance in B.C. Sept. 21. Ferguson, who was
selected Canada's Distinguished Canadian Retailer of the Year for 2000, will
address the Retail Council of Canada's 2000 Annual Western Canada conference at
the Vancouver Convention & Exhibition Centre. He will explore why employee
loyalty is one of the most important ingredients in any retailer's recipe for
success, and how motivated staff translate into superior customer service,
higher sales, satisfied customers and repeat shoppers.

NIKE TAGS WOMEN

U.S. sneaker industry leader Nike is forming a division to focus on designing
and marketing women's footwear, apparel and equipment. The division will be
headed by Clare Hamill, the former head of Nike's equipment division. Chairman
Phil Knight said growing interest in the pro basketball and women's soccer has
increased demand for women's sports and fitness products.

Hamill joined Nike in 1981 as a technician in the Nike Sports Research Lab. She
later held positions as director of marketing in Europe, director of men's
apparel merchandising and vice-president of global footwear.

STRATEGIST MOVES

Amanda Diedrick, 32, has joined the Barr & Wilcox Group as an issues
management/corporate public relations consultant. She was corporate
communications strategist at the Overwaitea Food Group.

ROYAL POSTING

Royal Bank of Canada has appointed Douglas Elix to its board of directors. Elix
is senior vice-president and group executive of IBM Global Services as well as a
member of the IBM corporate executive committee.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: (Dave Ferguson) Color Photo: (Phil Knight)

TYPE: Business; Appointment

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Three stops will do it for one busy man

                                 March 7, 2000


MY BOOKMARKS

Among them, a page on India, Nike's next target

SATYEN PATEL, 42 Nike's general manager in South-east Asia

IN THE Just Do It world of Nike, there is no time to waste. Riding the crest of
both the sporting and fashion waves requires a finger to be placed firmly on the
pulse.

Nike's general manager in South-east Asia is Mr Satyen Patel, 42, and when he
surfs the Net he looks for sites that "fulfil a definite need and curiosity in
terms of getting snapshots and soundbites in quick easy doses".

Just before dashing off to the airport for a business trip, he shared three of
the websites he visits regularly.

He said: "They're well rounded, focused and with sufficient details."

Just right for a busy executive who is constantly on the move.

www.rediff.com MR PATEL describes this portal as India-centric, which nicely
sums it up.

"At Nike, this is the next major market we're setting our eyes on. I've found
this site to be comprehensive, informative and easy to flow through."

Among other things, the site provides market indices, news and entertainment
features.

"Their e-commerce capability is noteworthy for those interested in dispatching
things within India."

www.nytimes.com "EVER since we lived in New York for six years, we couldn't do
without the Sunday New York Times.

"A one-shop-stop to bag the news about anything and everything around the
globe."

He also values this online newspaper for its information on the marketplace and
following consumer trends, important aspects of his business.

"Their section on restaurants and fashion each weekend is amazing."

www.metmuseum.org "THE classic site to chill out and glide through," he said of
the online version of New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art.

He appreciates the site's recent upgrade, which enables the user to explore and
learn about the art world.

"The Metstore within the site is terrific for gifts for those special
anniversaries and birthdays."

SECTION: Life; Life! Personal Tech; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 331 words

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Quick, easy doses is what Mr Patel looks for

                 Copyright 2000 The Straits Times Press Limited


                              78 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 28, 2000

Football: United sign pounds 300m deal with Nike

BYLINE: David Plummer and Daniel Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Sport Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 549 words


Manchester United have agreed a world-record kit deal with the sportswear
company Nike that will earn the Premiership champions pounds 300m.

The 15-year deal, to be announced on Monday, will eclipse any other in the
football industry. It is due to start when Umbro's current contract expires in
two years.

It will be worth an estimated pounds 20m a year, easily beating the current
world-record kit deal between Nike and the Brazilian Football Federation. That
10-year agreement is worth about pounds 7m a year to Brazil and covers all the
country's national teams, including junior and women.

Nike has taken the dramatic step in a move to gain a stranglehold of the world
football business after seeing the basketball market fall. The retirement two
years ago of Michael Jordan, who helped make Nike's name and fortune, hit the
company hard.

Nike had already forged close links with United, most notably through its
endorsement of Eric Cantona. The current United players Andy Cole, Dwight Yorke
and Paul Scholes are all kitted out in Nike.

The company has spoken to Sir Alex Ferguson about him adopting a role as a
part-time "ambassador" for Nike when he retires. A furious process of tender has
been going on in secrecy at Old Trafford for several months and a plc deputation
also visited Nike's world headquarters in Oregon.

David Beckham last night denied allegations that he spat towards the German
referee Markus Merk near the end of United's 3-1 defeat by PSV Eindhoven in the
Champions League match on Tuesday.

Although he did not deny spitting, he was adamant it was not at the official. "I
did not spit at the referee at all," he said. "Things happen, you react and get
headlines for it. But sometimes it looks worse than it actually is."

Merk, who later booked the midfielder for dissent, apparently failed to spot the
spitting incident. The likelihood, therefore, is that it was not included in his
match report and that Uefa will not deem it necessary to consider disciplinary
measures.

Emmanuel Petit last night insisted he had no intention of leaving Barcelona
despite reports in the Spanish press that Barca have asked his agents to find
the former Arsenal player another club.

Petit has been a peripheral figure in his first two months at the Nou Camp,
having failed to impress the coaching staff, and Mundo Deportivo reported that
Chelsea were among a host of clubs alerted to his possible availability.

"I've spoken to Jose Mari Bakero (the assistant coach) and he has told me there
is nothing in this story," responded Petit. "I'll do everything to stay here and
be successful. I'm not a quitter."

Petit signed for Barcelona for pounds 9m during the summer but has started only
one game since the Spanish league got under way.

Mark Kennedy and Phil Babb learned last night that they will not play for the
Republic of Ireland until they have answered court charges of drunken behaviour
and criminal damage. They are due in court on November 13.

Kennedy, of Manchester City, and Babb, of Sporting Lisbon, were sent home after
being arrested last month in Dublin by an off-duty policewoman for allegedly
jumping on her car after a drinking session in the build-up to the Republic's
Group Two game in the Netherlands.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              79 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            April 6, 2000, Thursday

NIKE SUED OVER SHOES

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 107 words


A NEW York orthopaedic surgeon has sued Nike for pounds 7 million, saying their
shoes tripped her up.

Dr Deborah Faryniarz claims she sustained serious permanent injuries when she
fell while jogging.

According to the lawsuit, her shoelace hooked around the back of the training
shoe, sending her sprawling.

Lawyer James P Kreindler said the fall severely injured the doctor's right
wrist. She was also pregnant with her first child at the time.

The lawsuit alleged that Nike knew before Dr Faryniarz was injured that the Nike
Certitude Cross-trainers were dangerous but failed to fix them.

Nike refused to comment.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              80 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                       September 15, 2000, Friday, FINAL

Nike buys more Woods: A new endorsement deal for the superstar golfer may earn
him $100 million.

SECTION: News; A5

LENGTH: 295 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore.


BEAVERTON, Ore. -- Sports gear giant Nike Inc. said Thursday it had extended its
marketing deal with the world's best golfer, Tiger Woods, for another five years
in one of the biggest endorsement packages ever.

Nike Golf President Bob Wood declined to confirm reports that the deal would pay
Woods $100 million, but the contract is worth far more than Woods' current
five-year deal, which had been estimated at $40 million.

''Did he get a big raise? Yes he did, and he's worth every penny of it,'' Wood
said in a telephone interview.

''It's definitely right up there, if it's not the largest. I haven't seen one
bigger than this, and I've been at Nike for 25 years,'' Wood added.

Like retired basketball legend Michael Jordan, Woods gets more money as Nike
sales exceed contract targets, potentially adding millions to his bank account.

''Michael's deal had upside. This deal has upside, too,'' Wood said.

Woods endorses a range of golf-related gear and clothing, including hats, shoes,
gloves and shirts.

The new deal runs from Sept. 1, 2001 until Sept. 1, 2006 --when his current
contract expires. Woods and Nike also signed an addendum to the current deal
that will pay him more money to endorse Nike's new line of golf balls.

Woods has been hitting Nike balls in tournaments since May 1, coinciding with
his red hot performance on the links and a surge in Nike's market share, Wood
said.

''Much of what we've done in the golf business so far can be directly attributed
to Tiger. We've gone from zero to four percent market share in golf balls in
just a few months.''

Woods this week won the $3.1 million Canadian Open, becoming only the second
player in history to win the U.S., British and Canadian Opens in the same year.


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Denver Post

                       June 21, 2000 Wednesday 2D EDITION

Nike boss Knight is right

BYLINE: Thomas Friedman,

SECTION: DENVER & THE WEST; Pg. B-11

LENGTH: 698 words


Some things are true even though Phil Knight, the chairman of  Nike, believes
them.

Knight recently made news for suddenly withdrawing a  contemplated $ 30 million
gift to the University of Oregon after  the university balked at joining a
coalition - the Fair Labor  Association - that was formed by human rights
groups, colleges,  the U.S. government and companies such as Nike to alleviate
global  sweatshop conditions. Oregon opted to join an alternative group  being
pushed on college campuses, the Worker Rights Consortium,  which also plans to
combat sweatshops, but refuses to cooperate  with any companies, such as Nike.

The natural assumption is that Knight is wrong. The truth is,  Nike has a
shameful past when it comes to tolerating sweatshops.  But on the question of
how best to remedy those conditions - which  Nike has now agreed to do - Knight
is dead right and Oregon wrong:  The best way to create global governance when
there is no global  government is to build coalitions, in which enlightened
companies,  consumers and social activists together forge their own rules and
enforcement mechanisms. That's what the FLA represents and it's  what the WRC
doesn't.

We've heard plenty this year about the downsides of  globalization. The question
is what to do about it. The more  radical protesters, such as the WRC, want to
trash multinationals  and get the World Trade Organization to set rules for
workers and  the environment, not just for trade. And what practical effect
have the protesters had so far? Zero.

So what to do? Well, it comes down to this: Do you want a  make a point or do
you want to make a difference? The FLA was  formed to make a difference. The WRC
was formed to make a point.

The FLA was forged four years ago, and it now includes the  Lawyers Committee
for Human Rights, the National Council of  Churches, the International Labor
Rights Fund, 135 universities  and major apparel companies. After long talks,
this diverse group  agreed on a nine-point code for any apparel factory anywhere
in  the world - including rules against forced labor and child labor,  as well
as freedom of association, minimum wages, maximum working  hours, lighting and
safety. They also agreed on a system of  independent monitoring, surprise
inspections and followups, which  is now being tested in five developing
countries.   Companies  whose factories comply will be able to sew an 'FLA'
label into  their clothing, and the 135 universities have agreed that their
logos will go only on FLA-made products. Global brands can't  afford any longer
to be associated with sweatshops, and the FLA  creates a credible system for
empowering consumers to punish dirty  companies and reward improving ones.  The
WRC, by contrast, is  backed by protectionist U.S. unions, such as Unite, that
don't  want any system that would give a stamp of approval to any  production
outside the United States. That's one reason the WRC  won't work with companies.
But that means the WRC has no way of  consistently monitoring factories or
following up remedies, and it  is only focused on clothing sold on college
campuses.   It's good  that there's a WRC out there noisily protesting
sweatshops and  embarrassing companies. But the WRC is not a substitute for the
  FLA, which has a comprehensive strategy for upgrading the whole  apparel
industry. It's a pity that some cowardly college  presidents - intimidated by a
few vocal and often uninformed  students - have quit the FLA in favor of the
WRC. 'We need to make  these companies our allies, not our opponents,' said Sam
Brown,  the 1960s antiwar activist, former U.S. ambassador and now  director of
the FLA. 'We won't change the world overnight. But it  is foolish to dismiss the
FLA because it does not go far enough or  fast enough. The issue is how to get
from here to there, and the  FLA has a real strategy for harnessing U.S.
consumer power to  change the lives and working conditions of real
people.'Thomas L.  Friedman, a two-time Pulitzer winner, writes for The New York
Times.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                        Copyright 2000 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         Morning Star (Wilmington, NC)

                           January 13, 2000, Thursday

Next / Be careful what you throw away; Brand names from the '80s are hip again

BYLINE: JANE RINZLER BUCKINGHAM, N.Y. Times News Service

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 478 words


What are some of the hippest brands of jeans these days? If you're thinking of
obscure names and high price tags, think again. Think Levi's. Yes, Levi's. And
Sergio Valente. Some of the biggest of the big brands are back, it seems. And
not just in the world of jeans. So before you clean out your closet for the new
year, take a look at this list of brands that have become cool again among the
trendy.

* NIKE

Like any crush, our love affair with Nike had to end. It seemed that no matter
how much we paid for the shoes, no matter how well-coordinated our outfits, we
were never quite the performance athletes Nike wanted us to be. We grew tired of
"just doing it." We needed a rest.

Nike's popularity was initially eroded by brands such as Airwalks and Vans. Then
Adidas' stripes began appearing everywhere. Even New Balance and Saucony had
their moments.

Yet just as mainstream Americans seemed about to banish Nike, trendsetters --
those hip, forward-thinking individuals who often set the pace for others --
began returning to the brand.

* LEVI'S

A few years ago, Levi's could do no right. Their product was staid, their ads
inconsistent and often bizarre. And they somehow managed to miss completely the
fact that wide jeans and hip-hop clothing were the biggest things to hit teens
since rock 'n' roll.

But while everyone was rushing out to buy Tommy, Abercrombie and Polo, the
Levi's elves were hard at work. They began to build on the brand's popularity
abroad, marketing their best products in Europe and importing their European
advertising success to the States.

Soon trendsetters across America began clamoring for the Levi's Equipment for
Legs line: high-tech, all-weather pants that allow the wearer to do a lot -- and
look cool doing it.

* MARITHE & FRANCOIS GIRBAUD and SERGIO VALENTE

These two brands, which seemed to have been sentenced to life in fad prison,
have suddenly been paroled.

Marithe & Francois Girbaud is back for good behavior. The brand has reinvented
itself; today it features stylish little nylon jackets and utility skirts
similar to those from other hip labels such as 555 Soul. Now known only as
"Girbaud," the clothing line is hot among trendy teens.

Sergio Valente, on the other hand, is back for time served. In the '80s, the
classic sexpot line of jeans was known for its tight look and steerhead logo.
Today's tight Sergios remind us of all that we miss from the fun-filled '80s.

* SWATCH

While Tag Heuer, Spoon and a series of other watch brands are dazzling consumers
with more features than an iMac, the simple Swatch -- the poor-man's Rolex of
the '80s -- has quietly been rediscovered.

The designs have gotten cooler, and the price makes them almost disposable.

In a world where individualism is everything, Swatch offers a watch for your
every mood, outfit or hairstyle.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FILE. Levi's are back

                   Copyright 2000 Wilmington Star-News, Inc.


                              83 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             June 16, 2000, Friday

NIKE ENTERS OLYMPICS

BYLINE: ALLYSON LIEBERMAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 037

LENGTH: 414 words


As the athletic-sneaker market takes a tumble, Nike is making a mad dash to beef
up its other divisions.

On Monday, Nike will unveil its never-before-seen designs for the Olympic summer
games as part of its strategy to strengthen its apparel business.

The sneaker giant, along with Vogue and GQ magazines, will take over the
Delegates Dining Room at the United Nations to present the new designs, which
will be worn by athletes from 17 different countries.

Nike will make exclusive designs for the U.S. track and field, rowing, softball
and women's volleyball teams.It will also design athletic apparel for teams from
China, Germany, Italy, Poland, Russia and the Netherlands, among others.

The Olympics could not come at a better time for Nike.

In February, the Beaverton, Ore.-based Nike saw its shares plunge 19 percent
after the company warned that retailers' plans to close hundreds of
sporting-goods stores would hurt the athletic-shoe-maker's earnings.

On top of the store shutdowns, sales fell 8.1 percent last year as consumers
switched to dressier styles, favoring hiking boots and khaki pants over the
sweatpants-and-running-shoes look.

To combat the loss, Nike announced last month that it would form a new high-tech
electronics division, pumping out items such as portable audioplayers,
heart-rate monitors and two-way radios to be introduced by the holiday shopping
season.

"Nike has definitely made a strong push into new categories," said John Taylor,
an analyst at Arcadia Investment Corp.

"The sneaker business has always been tough because it's subject to fashion
whims that change with the wind."

Taylor said Nike is still the leading sneaker manufacturer but is now looking to
build its apparel and accessories businesses.

"Nike is still the dominant name in sports. It's a smart idea to identify
themselves with winners.

"And the Olympics is a wonderful forum. It's the most visible way to get the
swoosh out there."

A spokeswoman for the company that makes the basketball sneakers once worn by
living-legend Michael Jordan and the outfits worn by tennis great Andre Agassi
said, "The apparel business is a growing business for us."

She said the Olympics "helps us to reinforce our innovation message," and "being
associated with great athletes provides us with the opportunity to create the
best product."


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FASHION PARADE: Phil Knight's Nike will clothe athletes from 17
different countries with its new Olympic line.

           Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                              85 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                         September 27, 2000, Wednesday

Nike set to play strong suit

LENGTH: 253 words


CATHY Freeman's Swiftsuit may become a retail product as sportswear giant Nike
prepares to cash in on her victory in the 400m final.

Nike's marketing team were ecstatic with Freeman's decision to don the hi-tech
suit, that uses aerodynamics and heat-sensored fabrics to boost performance,
which is only available to Nike-sponsored athletes.

Less than 12 hours after her medal victory, Nike launched an advertising
campaign on bus shelters around Sydney and Melbourne covered in pictures of
Freeman wearing the suit and carrying such slogans as "Change the world 400
metres at a time" and "Official supplier of joy to the Games".

Nike had pre-prepared a television commercial featuring Freeman that screened
within minutes of her victory on Monday night.

Although heavily sponsored by Nike, Freeman made no commitment to wear the suit
in the final after opting not to use it earlier.

But her coach, Peter Fortune, said she decided three days before the final to
wear it in the big race and he believed it gave her a psychological advantage
over her track rivals.

Nike spokeswoman Megan Ryan said plans to market the suit to the public had not
yet been confirmed.

Freeman's win would have triggered six-figure performance bonuses from sponsors
like Nike, Optus and Qantas -- all keen to re-sign Freeman when existing
contracts expire.

She also has smaller sponsorship deals with Coles Myer and News Ltd but the
total bonus payments from Monday night's victory could be as high as $800,000.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              86 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                          December 20, 2000, Wednesday

NIKE'S 2ND-PERIOD NET CLIMBED 11% ON SURGE IN EQUIPMENT SALES

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 3

LENGTH: 20 words


Nike Inc reports fiscal second quarter net income rose 11% to $119.4 million as
revenue rose 6.8% to $2.2 billion (S)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              87 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                           September 15, 2000, Friday

NIKE'S NET INCREASED IN FISCAL 1ST PERIOD AS REVENUE ROSE 5.4%

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 6

LENGTH: 20 words


Nike Inc reports fiscal first quarter net income rose 5% to $210.2 million as
revenue rose 5.4% to $2.64 billion (M)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              88 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                            August 22, 2000, Tuesday

NIKE PLANS TO LAUNCH UNIT TO COMPETE IN WOMEN'S FOOTWEAR, APPAREL MARKET

BYLINE: BY KHANH T L TRAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 5

LENGTH: 27 words


Nike Inc is forming a new unit to focus on women's footwear and apparel in an
effort to fend off intensifying competition in the women's athletic market (M)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              89 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                             June 30, 2000, Friday

NIKE SAYS PROFIT INCREASED 34% IN FISCAL 4TH PERIOD

BYLINE: BY KHANH T L TRAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 7A, Column 4

LENGTH: 24 words


Nike Inc reports fiscal fourth quarter net income rose nearly 34% to $126
million as revenue grew 4.1% to $2.27 billion (M)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              90 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                            June 22, 2000, Thursday

NIKE SAYS WEB SITE WAS HACKED IN PROTEST OF ECONOMIC FORUM

SECTION: Section C; Page 22, Column 5

LENGTH: 28 words


Nike Inc says hackers invaded its corporate Web site and rerouted traffic to
another site that urged activists to shut down an upcoming economic forum in
Australia (S)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              91 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                             March 17, 2000, Friday

NIKE NET ROSE 17%

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 2

LENGTH: 20 words


Nike Inc reports fiscal third quarter net income rose 17% to $145.3 million as
revenue fell 1% to $2.16 billion (S)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              92 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                            January 7, 2000, Friday

NIKE PROBES SOCCER-SHIRT ALLEGATIONS

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1

LENGTH: 20 words


Nike investigates allegations that jerseys made for German soccer team Borussia
Dortmund may contain toxic chemical (S)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              94 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                            January 3, 2000, Monday

Waffle soul led to Nike

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 81

LENGTH: 266 words


Bill Bowerman

Co-founder of Nike

Born: January 2, 1911

Died: December 25, 1999

BILL Bowerman was the co-founder of one of the biggest sports apparel companies
in the world.

  With Phil Knight, Mr Bowerman founded Nike, the company made famous by
basketball superstar Michael Jordan.

  Mr Bowerman was a track coach at the University of Oregon when he met Phil
Knight, a former runner.

  Seeking to develop an athletic shoe that was lighter and had more traction,
they came up with a new type of footwear.

  Mr Bowerman designed waffle-soled shoes and, buoyed by a boom in physical
fitness and running in the 1970s, Nike was built into the largest athletic shoe
and sports apparel maker in the world.

  Nike was based at Beaverton in Oregon.

  It was Nike's signing of young basketball superstar Michael Jordan that helped
turn the company into a multi-billion dollar venture.

  Mr Bowerman was an Oregon boy through and through.

  He was born in Portland and raised in Fossil and Medford.

  Mr Bowerman spent 24 years at the University of Oregon.

  Before coaching at Oregon, he competed in track events and played football for
the university.

  During his time Mr Bowerman won four NCAA track and field championships.

  He served a coaching apprenticeship in a high school at Medford.

  In 1949 he was named head track coach at Oregon University.

  He coached 44 all-Americans and 19 Olympians at the university.

  In 1964 Bowerman went into business with Knight, each investing $500.

  The company is now worth more than $21 billion.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              96 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 8, 2000 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MR. NIKE TOUR MET MR. NIKE

BYLINE: SAM FARMER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 838 words


Matt Gogel reached into the pocket of his black slacks and produced a note, a
message left for him in the Pebble Beach pro shop Monday morning from a friend
he met in Kansas City, Mo.

"You are ready to win . . . " the note read. "Good luck, George Brett."

Brett, the former Kansas City Royals star, was half right. Gogel, a 28-year-old
PGA Tour rookie who won six tournaments on the Nike Tour (now the Buy.com Tour),
might have been ready to win. But he was wholly unprepared for the Tiger Woods
tornado.

Mr. Nike Tour ran headlong into Mr. Nike, who overcame a seven-stroke deficit
with seven holes to play, then held on to collect his sixth consecutive victory.
Gogel was asked if there is a feeling of destiny about what Woods has done.

"I don't know about destiny," he said. "He's just damn good. He won the golf
tournament. He had all eyes on him. The press was following the story all week;
and he is the story."

That's not the way Monday started. Gogel, who began the day as a co-leader with
Mark Brooks at 12 under, made birdies on five of the first seven holes and, by
his estimation, was playing the best golf of his life.

He made a four-foot birdie putt on the first hole, a seven-footer on the second
and a 15-footer on the third. After picking up pars on Nos. 4 and 5, he birdied
6 and 7.

His 31 on the front nine was, quite simply, smoking.

"Everybody who's ever covered this tournament -- whether it's the U.S. Open or
the AT&T -- knows you score on the holes going out (on the front nine)," Gogel
said. "You score on holes 1 through 7. And 8, 9, 10, you kind of hold on and par
is a good score. Then, 11 through 18, you try to hit good shots and take what
you can get. But it's a tough test coming home, and it got me today."

For Gogel, the trouble started on No. 11, a 380-yard par 4. His approach shot
was long, landing in a greenside bunker. He blasted out of the sand and missed a
short par putt. That bogey left him at 16 under, five shots ahead of Woods.

Not long after that, Woods, who was three groups ahead, holed out a wedge from
97 yards to move to 13 under. He finished with birdies on two of the last three
holes.

"I didn't know he made eagle until I was on the 18th green and saw the
hole-by-hole," said Gogel, who could not recall hearing the roar of the gallery
when Woods made his marvelous wedge shot on 15. "I heard a couple ofloud noises.
I'm assuming he birdied 18 (which Woods did) because I did hear a loud ovation
about 30 minutes before I finished."

After every hole, Blair Gogel would nervously dial both sets of parents on a
cellular phone and give them a shot-by-shot update. On one hole, she walked over
to a house that lines the fairway, stood under a carport and made a call.

"She's been my biggest supporter," Gogel said.

When Woods finished with a birdie, that left Gogel one shot off the lead and
needing to birdie 17 or 18. He had chances on both.

"If Matt plays well coming in, makes a birdie here and there, it's over," Woods
said. "I needed to keep pushing, keep making birdies and make it interesting."

That it was. Gogel nearly drained an 18-foot putt on 17, missing by the width of
the ball. He came so close, he dropped to a squatting position and softly
clapped his hands in frustration.

On No. 18, he teed off with a 3-wood and took conservative aim for a spot on the
far right side, steering clear of the sea wall along the left. He landed in the
rough and hit his second shot to within 100 yards of the green. Finally, he made
a beautiful approach shot over the front bunker to 10 feet below the cup. He
missed -- handing victory to Woods -- and wound up three-putting to card a 40 on
the back nine.

Composed yet looking dazed, Gogel walked to the scorers' trailer with his wife's
arm draped over his shoulder. In the trailer, Woods offered a few words of
encouragement.

"I didn't realize it was Tiger," said Gogel, who never looked up from his
scorecard. "My wife said Tiger came in and said, 'You have a lot to be proud
of.' . . . It was a classy act. It was very classy for him to do that.
Certainly, I thought he would be out on the green for the trophy presentation,
so I didn't realize it was Tiger. It says a lot about who he is."

Meanwhile, the rest of the golf world is finding out a little more about Gogel,
who attended the University of Kansas, won $180,173 on the Buy.com Tour last
year and counts Brett among his friends. Two weeks ago at the Bob Hope Chrysler
Classic, Gogel played in the final group Sunday and was a shot out of the lead
with one round to play. He shot a 71 to tie for seventh, five shots behind
winner Jesper Parnevik.

"I have no doubt whether or not I'm good enough (to win), but until you get the
first one you are always going to wonder when it will come," said Gogel, who
finished tied for second with Vijay Singh and collected a $352,000 paycheck. "So
I will do the exact same thing next time and, hopefully, it's soon that I'm back
in a position to win a golf tournament."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE -- MERCURY NEWS
Matt Gogel shows some concern after he bogeyed the 12th hole -- his
second straight bogey.
[000208 SP 1D]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                           September 29, 2000, Friday

Mambo may just do it

BYLINE: BEN ENGLISH

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 142

LENGTH: 465 words


MAMBO is negotiating with footwear giant Nike to form a distribution alliance in
the United States.

The anti-establishment leisurewear icon, bought out by Gazal Corporation last
March, has held talks with Nike executives visiting Sydney for the Olympics.

Gazal managing director Michael Gazal said a Nike alliance was being considered
as a means to break into the tough US retail market.

"We had one of the Nike guys ring up and ask about it," he said.

"It was one of the Nike guys out here for the Olympics. He visited one of the
stores."

Mr Gazal ruled out any sale of Gazal's marketing rights to Mambo in the US.

Instead, the two are pursuing a joint venture.

"They could be a good distribution partner," Mr Gazal said.

"Nike would have to be one of the giant trademarks. It is like a mega giant.

"Obviously, getting into bed with someone like Nike we will have to weigh up all
the issues carefully."

However, Mr Gazal said he was also considering establishing Mambo in the United
States using internal resources.

"Down the track we may decide we want to have our own business in the United
States. We might send someone from Australia to live there and do it ourselves.

"Another option is a joint venture with someone like Nike but there are a number
of different ways we could do it."

Mr Gazal said he was compiling a master plan to develop global distribution for
Mambo, beginning in Britain and Europe before taking on the United States.

And a float may be in the pipeline.

"A float is possible," he said.

"Depending on what shape the business takes over the next couple of years and
what sort of funding is required to be able to achieve the sort of growth that
the brand needs, we could float.

"But nothing is imminent. It's probably three to five years away."

Mr Gazal said the Mambo purchase in March had transformed Gazal Corp from a
brand renter to a global brand owner.

"It's a lot different from being an Australian licensee," he said.

"We are really focusing on the Australian operation, the European operation and
getting our international sourcing structure ready to supply world markets.

"It's an exciting time for us. We just have to make sure we have the right
business plan and execute it properly."

Gazal paid Mambo creator Dare Jennings and his partner Andrew Rich $8.7 million
in Gazal shares, making them the largest shareholders outside the Gazal family
with an 8 per cent stake.

Mr Jennings remains Mambo's creative director and has taken a seat on the Gazal
board.

Steve Philley

AN article in yesterday's Herald Sun about statewide equalisation of electricity
prices gave an incorrect name for the chief executive officer of TXU Australia.

The company's chief executive officer is Steve Philley.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              98 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                           October 31, 2000, Tuesday

Calls for Nike to get boot

BYLINE: Benjamin Haslem

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 267 words


AUSTRALIA'S Paralympians should push to replace Nike as their sportswear
supplier in response to a degrading advertisement about the disabled, one of the
country's leading disability sports groups said yesterday.

Wheelchair Sports Australia chairman Michael Godfrey-Roberts foreshadowed a
consumer backlash against Nike and said the team should dump the company if
another manufacturer offered to step in.

But he acknowledged that finding a replacement would be tough and praised Nike's
overall record of supporting disabled sport in Australia.

Mr Godfrey-Roberts was commenting on a Nike advertisement describing disabled
people as drooling, misshapen husks roaming the Earth in motorised wheelchairs.
The advertisement appeared in several US outdoor magazines available in
Australia.

"If we were in a fortunate position to be able to make a choice, I have a
feeling they would be saying: 'Thank you very much, Nike. We are going to a
competitor, they are nicer people,"' he said.

Disability groups and federal politicians yesterday joined the growing
international chorus condemning the clothing giant.

Democrats leader Meg Lees said Nike should boost its support of the Paralympic
team as compensation for the ad. Senator Lees described the advertisement as
"appalling" and "barely believable".

Opposition sports spokeswoman Kate Lundy agreed that Nike should consider such a
funding gesture.

Physical Disability Council of Australia president Maurice Corcoran said the ad
had damaged 20 years of work by advocacy groups fighting negative attitudes
towards the disabled.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              99 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      November 4, 2000, Saturday Edition 1

Nike in £303m deal with Reds

SECTION: SPORT, Pg. 92

LENGTH: 245 words


   Manchester United last night confirmed their status as the biggest football
club in the world with the announcement of a huge sponsorship deal with
sportswear giants Nike, worth an incredible £302.9m over 13 years.

The "strategic alliance", which starts in August 2002, makes Nike official
sponsors and hands them worldwide rights to all United merchandise and global
retail operations.

The deal could be even more lucrative to United, who will get half of Nike's net
profits generated from the licensing and retail operations providing they stay
in the top half of the Premiership and play in Europe.

To put the deal into perspective, it works out at £23.3m a year for United and
the total is more than a quarter of the £1.1bn Sky are paying all the
Premiership clubs for live TV rights.

It dwarfs the £30m four-year shirt sponsorship deal United announced with
Vodafone - then a record - and the only comparable arrangement is the
sponsorship deal Nike have with the Brazilian national side.

United and Nike will set up a subsidiary to control the global operation, each
appointing half the directors. Nike will appoint the chairman, who will have the
casting vote, and the sportswear giants will also have the option to terminate
the deal after six years if they should wish.

United's statement said the club intend to use the revenue for "general
corporate purposes" - meaning some of the money will be available for buying
players.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2000

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd


                             100 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Nike Spot Wins An Emmy Award

BYLINE: By Allison Fass

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 102 words


A commercial for Nike Inc. in Beaverton, Ore., won the Emmy Award for
outstanding television commercial at the annual competition sponsored by the
Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.

The winning spot, created by Wieden & Kennedy in Portland, Ore., was "The
Morning After," a humorous look at the after-effects of a Year 2000 disaster on
New Year's Day. The winning spot was one of five nominated in the commercial
category competition; it was honored at a ceremony on Saturday at which creative
awards were bestowed in advance of the televised Emmys presentation on Sept. 10.





http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             101 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                                October 30, 2000

l MANCHESTER UNITED have tried to allay fears that a possible kit contract with
Nike could breach their new club charter.

BYLINE: By

SECTION: Unknown, Pg.31

LENGTH: 140 words


United are reportedly negotiating with Nike, and Shareholders United are alarmed
by the allegations of child labour levelled at the American sportswear giant.

Shareholders United feel the club could be going against their own charter if
they link up with Nike and have written to chief executive Peter Kenyon
detailing their concerns.

United have consistently refused to comment on the reports that they are talking
to Nike and insist they are committed to seeing out the remaining 20 months of
their current agreement with Umbro.

Group marketing director Peter Draper claims the club would not do anything
which would breach their charter.

eeFirst of all we have not got a deal with Nike,i he said.

eeOur stance on this is that we work with people to ensure that their practices
comply with what we expect to be reasonable.i

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2000 Herald Express


                             102 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 15, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: EUROPE;
NIKE SHIRTS CALLED NOT HAZARDOUS

BYLINE: Dow Jones

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 93 words


Germany's consumer protection office says the Nike soccer jerseys that were
pulled from store shelves last week after reports they contained a dangerous
chemical do not present any health hazards. At the same time, the office said
the chemical, tributyltin, or TBT, which was used in the shirts to reduce odors
from sweating, should be banned. Over the years TBT has been used for
anti-barnacle paint on the hulls of ships, but British and Dutch tests have
shown it causes mutations in marine snails, and the World Wildlife Fund wants a
global ban.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             103 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                            January 14, 2000, Friday

NIKE JERSEYS FOUND SAFE IN GERMANY

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1

LENGTH: 46 words


Germany's consumer-protection agency finds tributyltin (TBT) used in Nike soccer
jerseys to reduce smell of sweat does not pose health hazard, but says TBT,
which has been used in ship paint, should be banned because tests have shown it
causes mutations in marine snails (S)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             104 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 29, 2000, Friday

FOOTBALL: NIKE TIE UP UNITED MEGA DEAL

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 142 words


MANCHESTER United are poised to announce a pounds 300million kit deal with Nike.

The American sportswear giants are believed to have agreed a 15-year link-up
with the Premiership champions that could be rubber-stamped as early as next
week.

United still have two years left to run on their current contract with Umbro,
but Nike are determined to establish themselves as the leading force in the
world-wide football market.

The firm already sponsor Brazil's national team to the tune of just under pounds
7million-a-year for the rights to produce the famous yellow shirts of the
four-times World Cup winners.

And they now want to tie up a similar agreement with the world's most famous
club side.

Nike already have strong links with the Old Trafford giants, with Andy Cole,
Paul Scholes and Dwight Yorke all wearing their boots.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLE: Already wears Nike boots

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             105 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                          September 19, 2000, Tuesday

NBC AXES NIKE AD FOR OLYMPICS AS VIEWERS DECRY VIOLENT THEME

BYLINE: BY JOE FLINT

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 3

LENGTH: 43 words


After receiving over 2,000 complaints, NBC is dropping a new Nike Inc ad created
specifically for the Olympics; the commercial, a horror-movie parody, shows a
chainsaw-wielding man chasing a scantily-clad woman; the ads were created by
Wieden & Kennedy (M)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             106 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 28, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

ASK US

BYLINE: BOB HARIG

SECTION: SPORTS; ASK US; GOLF: A WEEKLY SPECIAL REPORT; Pg. 16C

LENGTH: 778 words



Q: Tiger Woods endorses Nike Tour Accuracy balls but really uses custom-made
balls. I would like to know if other golfers are able to use that same Nike ball
or whether that is made exclusively for Tiger. If only he uses it, does he have
an advantage over other golfers?

Gardner Counselman

Sun City Center

A: Since Woods started using the Nike ball in May, his have been made especially
for him with a cover that is a bit harder than the regular Nike ball. The
company got into trouble over this because it claimed Woods was using a ball
that is being sold to the public when it was not. Nike, however, has plans to
market the same ball soon. As for whether Woods has an advantage, that is
debatable. That golf ball would not necessarily help another player.

  Said Woods: "There are a lot of different things that we tinker around with
that the general public doesn't have access to. We have clubs and balls that are
not on the market. I don't think the general public would really see that much
of a difference."

Q: Why do some pros have customized golf balls? I can see customized clubs. But
a golf ball should be like a baseball or a softball. They should be the same.

Dave McAlpine

St. Petersburg

A: Golf balls do have standards, such as a uniform diameter of 1.68 inches. But
other things about balls are allowed to differ, such as the hardness of the
cover or the way the core is constructed. And to the proficient player, those
differences are large, because they might affect the way the ball spins or its
trajectory.

Q: Whatever happened to Martha Nause? She was on the LPGA Tour for about 20
years.

Jack Hines

Seminole

A: Nause, 46, who began her career in 1978 and won three LPGA Tour titles, is no
longer playing the tour full time. She has played in just three events this
year.

Q: Do the players have to pay an entrance fee to play in pro tournaments?

Norman Young

St. Petersburg

A: Senior PGA Tour and Buy.com Tour players pay $ 100 to enter each tournament.
PGA Tour players no longer pay an entry fee. LPGA Tour players have a percentage
of their earnings deducted each week that in essence is an entry fee.

Q: When you're playing a shot after it stops on a cart path, my understanding is
that you drop at the point of nearest relief. If it's left of the center line,
you drop on the left side of the cart path, etc. Would it matter if you are a
left-handed or right-handed golfer? I'd like you to clarify.

Ken Pointer

Sun City Center

A: Yes, it does matter if you are a lefty or a righty, because you must drop at
the nearest point of relief - not to the side of the cart path that is closest.

According to Rule 24-2, which deals with immovable obstructions, a player should
"drop it within one club length of (the cart path) not nearer the hole," but at
a point where the obstruction, or cart path, does not interfere with the swing.
If one club length requires you to still stand on the cart path, then the
nearest point of relief might be the other side of the path.

Q: A few years ago, there was a young man who won the U.S. Amateur whose name
was Patton. I just wondered what happened to him.

Russell Rowe

New Port Richey

A: The player you are thinking of is Chris Patton, who won the 1990 U.S.
Amateur. Patton has spent the last several years bouncing around the various
mini-tours and the Buy.com Tour and has not made it to the PGA Tour. This year,
he finished 18th on the TearDrop Tour money list with $ 15,305.

Q: Several courses in the area have yardage computers on carts. I thought using
artificial devices for yardages is a breach of the rules. Are players
disqualified for using them?

Bob Tait

Clearwater

A: Range-finders or computerized devices to determine yardage are not allowed in
competition. Typically, for competitions that allow the use of golf carts, the
devices are turned off. Their purpose is typically for the enjoyment of casual
players and to help speed play.

Q: How do you keep from hitting the ball "fat," in other words behind the ball?

Arnie Becker

Bayonet Point

A: There are several reasons why a golfer would hit the ball "fat," according to
Ned Hall, the teaching pro at Clearwater Country Club. "The first thing I would
do is bring the ball position back in your stance," Hall said. "Without seeing
what is wrong, that might be a good start. Then work on taking the club halfway
back and halfway through. The club could be collapsing at the top, and hitting
behind the ball is often the result. So tighten up the swing, take half swings,
and build it back up. Many times when we hit it fat, it's because we are
overswinging."

- Compiled by Bob Harig.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press; Tiger Woods lines up a putt.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                             107 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                            January 3, 2000, Monday

NIKE'S HEAD COACH

BYLINE: BY DONALD KATZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 3

LENGTH: 25 words


Audible Inc chmn Donald Katz, Manager's Journal column, pays tribute to Nike
co-founder Bill Bowerman, who died in December, at age 88; drawing (M)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

TYPE: EDITORIAL COLUMN

GRAPHIC: Diagram

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             108 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                       June 2, 2000 Friday Final Edition

Audits prompt Nike action

SOURCE: The Associated Press

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 243 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON;ORE.


Nike posted audits of its North American factories on its Web site yesterday as
part of the athletic shoe and clothing maker's efforts to show it is working to
improve conditions and guard labour rights around the world.

Calling the effort Transparency 101, the site lists information about 53
factories that PricewaterhouseCoopers audited in the past year, summarizing
problems auditors found in 14 categories.

The largest problem appeared to be health and safety standards. The auditors
found that 24 U.S. factories and eight Mexican factories under contract to Nike
did not fully comply with company standards.

PricewaterhouseCoopers also found 22 U.S. factories, four Mexican factories and
a Canadian plant had problems properly documenting workers and making
inspections.

Beaverton-based Nike is giving each factory an "action plan" to correct
problems, and then will conduct follow-up inspections to ensure compliance, said
Cheryl McCants, a company spokeswoman.

Factories that fail to meet standards will receive warnings, and could even lose
Nike contracts, she said.

"Our intention is not to take business away, or to have people lose their jobs,"
McCants said. "But we want them to adhere to the plan. If they're not able to
comply, we may have to start doing business elsewhere."

The factory locations are not listed, but the Web site offers a more detailed
audit for one location that is representative of each nation's factories.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 2000 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                             109 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                             April 14, 2000, Friday

BO SUES NIKE, SAYS HE GOT DIDDLY

BYLINE: By GREG B. SMITH DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 212 words

Bo Diddley thinks Nike doesn't know squat about keeping promises.

The 71-year-old rock-'n'-roller sued the athletic gear company yesterday,
charging it used his name and image on T-shirts without permission.

The shirts show Diddley's likeness and the slogan, "You Don't Know Diddley."

The guitar player, whose original style has been imitated by hundreds of
musicians through the years, agreed in 1989 to appear in TV commercials with
athlete Bo Jackson.

That deal also involved selling the T-shirts and was supposed to last two years,
according to legal papers filed in Manhattan Federal Court by Diddley's
attorney, John Rosenberg.

Last year, Nike contacted Diddley to negotiate a deal to reissue the T-shirts,
but it began selling them before an agreement was reached, the suit charges.

By February, Nike had sold nearly 28,000 T-shirts and made more than $200,000,
the suit says.

Diddley, whose real name is Ellas McDaniel, demands unspecified compensatory
damages and at least $500,000 in punitive damages.

Vada Manager, a senior official at Nike, called the suit a tactic in a contract
dispute.

He said that before the suit was filed, Nike had agreed to pay Diddley $10,000
to $15,000, but Diddley apparently didn't think it was enough.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bo Diddley

                        Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.


                             110 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                            April 6, 2000, Thursday

HURT DOC WANTS NIKE TO FOOT A$10M BILL

BYLINE: BY GREG B. SMITH DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 204 words

On a spring day last year, upper East Side Dr. Deborah Faryniarz tripped over
her Nike shoelaces and landed hard on the pavement.

She got up, brushed herself off and did what any red-blooded American would do -
she sued the sneaker company.

Yesterday, in a personal injury suit filed in Manhattan Federal Court, the
doctor demanded $10 million for pain and suffering, mental anguish and loss of
past and future earnings.

Faryniarz - who continues to practice orthopedics - says that while jogging, her
right shoelace got caught on a tab at the back of her left Nike Certitude
cross-trainer.

She landed on her knees and wrists, causing permanent damage to her wrist that
hampered her abilities as a surgeon, said her lawyer, James Kreindler.

"For most people, if they trip and fall, it doesn't impact on their careers,"
Kreindler said. "For Deborah, it does."

The doctor charges Nike knew about the "design flaw" but did nothing about it.

Nike spokeswoman Cheryl McCants said the company hadn't seen the suit and
wouldn't comment.

She said she could not recall reports of serious problems with Nike sneakers but
observed, "In general, people have problems and sometimes don't tie their shoes
properly."


LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.


                             113 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 15, 2000

Don't try to hijack our gold, Tiger

BYLINE: Ian Wooldridge

SECTION: Pg. 87

LENGTH: 1122 words


HE FLEW in from Spain by private jet, charmed a crowd of 5,000 in Hyde Park,
quipped with reporters, reduced a tough lady columnist to knee-trembling ecstasy
and immediately flew out again, naturally by private jet.

Is there anything the handsome, articulate, diplomatic, supremely gifted,
massively rich and just 24-year-old Tiger Woods can do wrong?

Actually, there is. For a start he can stop supporting the absurd notion that
golf should be resurrected in the Olympic Games after 96 years. He is only a
recent convert to the concept anyway, almost certainly put up to it by Nike, the
sports goods manufacturer which not only contributes huge sponsorship to
Olympics but also pays Tiger the earth for wearing Nike shirts, Nike hats, Nike
shoes and hitting Nike golf balls.

Obviously, Tiger displaying all that Nike gear to the vast global audiences who
watch the Olympics but don't normally watch golf on television would add up to
one of the smartest free-advertising deals in history. Nike pays fortunes to its
top executives to dream up these coups, but not everyone was born yesterday.

So when Matthew Pinsent, one of our rowing heroes from the Sydney Games, briefly
hung his Olympic gold medal round Tiger's neck in Hyde Park, Tiger said: 'Wow,
I've never touched one of these before,' and, absolutely on cue, lent his
super-prestigious name to the pressure group aiming for Olympic golf.

Mercifully, Mr Juan Antonio Sama-ranch, who'd prefer to be addressed as His
Excellency, will be out of office by the time a decision is taken. He would have
welcomed golf like a shot.

This, remember, was the man who in his first year as president of the
International Olympic Committee arbitrarily changed all the rules to welcome
professional football into the fold and later admitted professional tennis
players and basketballers to squash aspiring kids like insects.

By abnegating the trust invested in his high office - the Olympic Games were
revived to bring the youth of the world together in friendly competition - he
became the lackey of American television corporations paying fortunes to lick
his boots while paying for his monarchical lifestyle. Of course, TV would prefer
Tiger Woods on screen rather than John Bloggs, a public-course golfer from
Wigan, but that is not what the Olympics were designed for.

On the one hand Samaranch has professed concern about the accelerating
'gigantism' of the Olympics. On the other he has welcomed the big sports stars
who boost TV ratings.

Professional footballers in the Olympics? Rubbish. They have their own World Cup
which is bigger than the Olympics anyway. Professional tennis in the Olympics?
Even bigger rubbish. The game has four world championships every year.

And so it is with golf. Each year it brings to our screens its greatest
performers in the U.S. Masters, U.S.

Open and U.S. PGA Championships, and in the Open Championship in Britain.

It has enormous exposure.

And what would golf in the Olympics do? I will tell you precisely.

It would deprive 30 or so young men and women of the thrill of a lifetime and
maybe even a place in the sun.

The Olympic Games were made for them, not for Tiger Woods.

i.wooldridge@dailymail.co.uk

YEARS AGO, at a time when Sportsmail was giving monthly awards to those who had
contributed massively to British sport, we handed over a small trophy to Sir
Jack Hayward (above) at a private lunch in Simpson's in The Strand.

This was not only to recognise the huge amount of money he had ploughed into
Wolverhampton Wanderers Football Club but also the enormous sums he had given to
protect English tradition and its environment. Sitting down because there were
only six of us present and it wasn't a formal occasion, Jack said: 'Do you know,
this is one of the happiest events I've ever been to. No-one ever gives me
anything because they think I'm so rich I don't need anything.'

Well, he needs a great deal more than Wolverhampton's alleged fans gave him the
other evening. They booed, catcalled and hissed him for keeping their club
alive. They are disgraceful.

TOMORROW, I'm going to a lunch at the House of Lords to celebrate the elevation
of this girl I've known for years to become Dame of the British Empire.

In the morning at Buckingham Palace she will receive this award from the Queen
and no sportsperson in my life has ever deserved it more. She could, after
winning her gold medal at the Munich Olympics in 1972, have pocketed today's
equivalent of GBP 1million.

Instead, she gave it all away to repair a running track for Protestants and
Catholics alike in Belfast.

Arise, Dame Mary Peters.

Are these ocean heroes taking one risk too many?

THREE TIMES I have been round the globe reporting round-the-world yacht races in
the most cowardly way, by which I mean flying from destination to destination
and resting up in comfortable hotels to await the boats coming in.

The most harrowing stories were always in either New Zealand or Australia after
they'd come through the horrific high seas and shramming cold of the Southern
Ocean.

Two dead, I remember, and one amazingly rescued from tumultuous waves at night.
If you're not clipped on all the time, your yacht will be speeding away from you
and you will have no more than 15 minutes to live before you go under forever.

My friend, Michael Calvin, is a columnist on our sister paper, The Mail on
Sunday, who endured this and somehow, amid all the filth, claustrophobia and
danger, contrived to write a series of brilliant articles which rightly won him
the Sports Journalist of the Year Award. No-one came within spitting distance.

Calvin returned home a changed man. Fools were no longer suffered lightly.

He'd acquired a deep cynicism about fellow journalists who reckoned a sour quote
from Sir Alex Ferguson, at Manchester United, merited the easy headlines it
provoked. He'd been there and done it, which most of us haven't.

I admire Calvin even more for publicly pulling out of The Race, which begins
from Barcelona on New Year's Eve and will attempt, with a six-man crew, to rush
around the world in 70 days or fewer.

'It is not so much that I minded taking the risk,' he said, 'as believing that
they're all taking off in a manic rush to satisfy their sponsors.'

Calvin's skipper was Pete Goss, captain of the revolutionary Team Philips
catamaran which two days ago suffered its fourth gear failure after being
launched by the Queen.

Goss, lionised for his rescue of a French yachtsman in the Southern Ocean, is an
heroic figure. I love yotties for their bravery but I hold my breath about this
forthcoming race.

Pray God there isn't a disaster.


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             114 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                            June 7, 2000, Wednesday

$15,000 fine for breach

BYLINE: RICK WALLACE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 174 words


SPORTSWEAR maker Nike has been penalised $15,000 for refusing to supply lists of
companies making its clothes.

The textile workers' union took Nike Australia to court over its refusals in a
bid to ensure the company was not using outworkers to make its apparel.

The company agreed to remedy its breaches of the clothing trades award and
settled with the union out of court yesterday.

The award requires textile companies to list their sub-contractors to encourage
accountability and avoid exploitation.

The Textile Clothing and Footwear Union said the settlement spared the company
from allegedly embarrassing evidence suggesting outworkers were being used to
make Nike clothes.

"This is about Nike not only keeping to the award conditions but actually paying
a penalty for having breached them," state secretary Michele O'Neil said.

Nike spokeswoman Megan Ryan said the company did not use outworkers and ensured
none of its suppliers did.

She said the company had ensured the award oversights would not

occur again.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             116 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           February 9, 2000 Wednesday

Nike says store closings will reduce its earnings;
Company's shares suffer biggest drop in 17 years

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. B11

LENGTH: 246 words

DATELINE: New York


Nike Inc. yesterday warned that retailers' plans to close hundreds of sporting
goods stores will hurt the athletic shoe maker's earnings this fiscal year and
next, sending the company's shares down 19 per cent.

Nike dropped $8.56 (U.S.) to $36.69 in New York Stock Exchange trading. The
decline is Nike's biggest one-day drop in 17 years and erased $2.4-billion in
market value.

The profit shortfall is the latest setback for chief executive officer Phil
Knight. Sales fell 8.1 per cent last year as people switched to dressier styles
and stores cut prices to clear out surplus sneakers, sweatpants and T-shirts.
The stock has lost more than half its value since peaking at $76.37 three years
ago.

"Closets got kind of overpowered with white leather athletic shoes and the
market shifted toward more rugged styles in other colours," said Sid Doolittle
of the Chicago-based consulting firm McMillan Doolittle.

Venator Group Inc., the largest seller of athletic shoes, has announced plans to
close about 150 Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker and Champs
stores. Just For Feet Inc. is closing about half its 85 locations.

Nike also blamed the profit shortfall on the euro, which has fallen 13 per cent
against the U.S. dollar in the past 12 months. That hurts the value of European
sales when translated into the stronger dollar. About a quarter of Nike's sales
are from Europe.

Officials with Beaverton, Ore.-based Nike met with analysts yesterday in New
York.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2000 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             117 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           January 8, 2000, Saturday

Nike toxic  shirt fear

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 138 words


SPORTSWEAR giant Nike has ordered urgent tests on garments amid claims some of
its shirts may be laced with a toxic chemical.

Nike Australia spokeswoman Megan Ryan said the tests would be conducted "as soon
as possible".

They follow German claims a Nike soccer shirt contained traces of the toxic
chemical tributyltin, or TBT.

The chemical is a heavy metal compound used in anti-barnacle paint for ships. It
can also be used to kill bacteria and quell the smell of sweat. Studies show it
causes mutations in marine snails.

TBT can cause neurological problems, damage the immune system and harm the
liver.

A German television program found the chemical in the black-and-yellow jersey of
soccer champions Borussia Dortmund.

Ms Ryan said the shirts subject of the German report were not available in
Australia.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             118 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            October 1, 2000, Sunday

NIKE PULLS OUT OF CHILD SLAVE FACTORY

BYLINE: Lucy Panton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 187 words


SPORTSWEAR giant Nike scrapped its contract with a Far East factory yesterday as
the Sunday People alerted it that child slave labour was being used.

Nike - which has signed a world- record pounds 300million sponsorship deal with
Manchester United - insisted it did not know the Cambodian operator was using
under-age workers. It cut its links with the June textiles factory as soon as it
was told of the scandal.

The Sunday People had learned of kiddies as young as 12 working for 75p a day in
sweatshops. Yvonne Iwaniuk, Nike UK's head of corporate communication, said: "We
are painfully aware of the situation at theJune factory and have decided to pull
out there. We deeply regret what has happened and are doing everything to
address the issues that allowed this."

US-based Nike has now found out about one under-age girl employed at the factory
but said she had falsified her papers to get work.

Ms Iwaniuk stressed: "We deplore child labour under any circumstances. We just
don't tolerate it." United's 15-year deal with Nike starts in 2002 and will net
the club pounds 20million a season.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             119 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                              May 16, 2000 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

Nike turns to fitness gadgets;
MARKETING & MEDIA

BYLINE: Luke Collins with Reuters

SECTION: MARKETING; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 340 words


First it dropped the swoosh. Now global sportswear brand Nike has announced a
radical departure from its traditional footwear and apparel business, revealing
plans to launch a range of high-technology gadgets aimed squarely at the health
and fitness consumer.

Nike has created a new division, Techlab, to create five new products: a digital
audio device, real-time speed-distance and heart rate monitoring devices, a
digital compass and a hand-held sport communication product.

The products complement Nike's only existing technology product, its Triax
sports watches which were introduced in 1997 and have since sold around 2.5
million units. The new venture is seen as another way of retaining fickle
athletic product consumers, whose tastes and demands change almost monthly.

Last year, Nike dropped the use of its iconic "swoosh" logo for one campaign in
an attempt to counter the perception among younger consumers that it had lost
its cachet by being over-exposed. That campaign saw it instead adopt the moniker
"6453" Nike's telephone key pad spelling to promote a new shoe among teenagers.

The company has teamed with Californian technology group S3 Inc to produce the
digital audio player, which will be released in the United States in July with a
$US299 ($510) price tag. The product will play up to 120 minutes of digital
quality music such as MP3 files and Windows Media audio files with 64 megabytes
of built-in memory.

Nike will also develop content such as tailored music and motivational messages.

The other four core products are expected to be launched later this year. Nike's
Speed Distance Monitor Triax 100 will measure speed and distance through a
device that laces onto the user's shoe, while its Heart Rate Monitor Triax 100
uses a chest transmitter.

Nike's All Conditions Ge Ascent Compass combines altitude functions, a compass,
weather forecasting and a thermometer in a wrist piece that resembles a sport
watch, while its Personal Sport Communications Communicate is a compact two-way
radio with a

3.2-kilometre radius.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS" From body to mind...Nike's changing direction. Photo: MICHELLE
MOSSOP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2000 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             121 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                           January 8, 2000, Saturday

Nike toxic shirt fears

SOURCE: AP

BYLINE: FIONA HUDSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 196 words


SPORTSWEAR giant Nike has ordered urgent tests on garments amid claims some of
its shirts may be laced with a toxic chemical.

Nike Australia spokeswoman Megan Ryan said the tests -- on soccer shirts and
possibly other items -- would be held as soon as possible.

They follow claims on German TV that a Nike soccer shirt contained traces of the
toxic chemical tributyltin, or TBT.

The chemical is a heavy metal compound used in anti-barnacle paint for ships.

It can also be used to kill bacteria and quell the smell of sweat.

Studies have shown it causes mutations in marine snails.

At high levels in humans, TBT is believed to cause neurological problems, damage
the immune system and harm the liver.

The German TV program found traces of the chemical in the black and yellow
jersey of 1997 European soccer champions Borussia Dortmund.

German department stores have pulled the shirts from shelves until the results
of further tests are known.

Ms Ryan said the shirts that were the subject of the German report were not
available in Australia.

But the company was investigating a range of garments worldwide to ensure
consumers were not at risk.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             122 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 28, 2000

GBP 300m windfall;
BOOST FOR FERGIE AS UNITED LINE UP 15-YEAR NIKE DEAL

BYLINE: Ken Lawrence

SECTION: Pg. 87;88

LENGTH: 434 words


MANCHESTER UNITED are on the brink of a world record kit deal with Nike that
will earn the Premiership champions GBP 300million.

The contract, which could be unveiled next week, is due to start when Umbro's
sponsorship expires in two seasons.

The Nike deal will run for 15 years - in itself a phenomenal arrangement - and
industry experts expect its annual value to be around GBP 20m - around GBP 14m a
year more than the present six-year contract.

The most lucrative current tie-up, between Nike and the Brazilian Football
Federation, is worth GBP 70m over 10 years. The American giants lost out to
Umbro two years ago when the Football Association signed a GBP 50m, five-year
deal with the Manchester-based company.

Nike has already forged close links with United, most notably through its
endorsement of former Old Traf-ford striker Eric Cantona. Current United stars
Andy Cole, Dwight Yorke and Paul Scholes are all fitted out by Nike.

The company has also offered Sir Alex Ferguson a role as a part-time
'ambassador' when he retires as United manager in 2002.

Inevitably, the cash infusion will allow United to plunder the transfer market
more ambitiously than up until now. It is a timely boost for Ferguson, who was
last night accused of undermining United's Champions League campaign through his
own arrogance.

Ferguson left out David Beckham and Ryan Giggs from the team that lost 3-1 to
PSV Eindhoven on Tuesday. Dutch striker Arnold Bruggink believes the Old
Trafford manager was condescending in selecting a shadow side that saw four
other changes from the lineup held 3-3 by Chelsea last Saturday.

United suffered their worst European defeat in six years and a frustrated
Beckham, a 70th-minute substitute, appeared to spit at the referee, though he
insisted the incident appeared worse than it was.

Bruggink said: 'When we heard Sir Al ex had left out Beckham and Giggs, United's
two special players, we were amazed. I think there was a little arrogance in
what Ferguson did.

'Our coach, Eric Gerrets, told us:"You must go out and beat them for your own
pride.You cannot let the rest of Europe see that United can field a shadow side
and beat PSV on their own ground".' Beckham was photographed spitting in the
general direction of German referee Markus Merk and was booked seconds later for
arguing.

But yesterday he maintained: 'I didn't spit at the referee.You react to things
and it was a frustrating night for us because we didn't get the rub of the
green. But it was blown out of proportion and made to look a lot worse than it
was.'


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             123 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                         March 10, 2000, Friday Edition

NOW THERE ARE TWO NIKE BRANDS IN AUSTRALIA

BYLINE: RODERICK CAMPBELL

SECTION: Part A; Page 20

LENGTH: 348 words


Legal Reporter
 There may soon be Nike brand cosmetics and toiletries in Australian stores as a
result of a court ruling yesterday, but they will have nothing to do with the
giant American manufacturer of sports wear.

A little known Spanish company - little known in Australia, rather than Europe -
succeeded in the High Court in having overturned a decision to remove its Nike
brand name from the register of Australian trade marks.

Lined up against each other were Spain's Campomar Sociedad Limitata and the
US-owned Nike International and Nike Australia.

Campomar and its predecessors have been marketing perfumes since 1940 under the
Nike name. The name remains registered in several major European countries. It
registered the name in Australia in 1992 and started trading.

Nike International's pre decessor registered the name - which both companies had
borrowed from the Greek goddess of victory - in Australia in 1975 as applying to
sports shoes and uniforms. The range of goods covered by the registration was
later expanded but not to include cosmetics.

Yesterday's ruling means Nike International is precluded from moving into that
area of business, an area that arch-rival Adidas is now involved in.  In 1994,
Nike moved to have Campomar's Australian trade mark registrations expunged by
order of the Federal Court. It was, in part, the fact that Campomar's Nike
Sports Fragrance was being sold alongside Adidas's equivalent product that led
the Federal Court to conclude the Campomar's use of the Nike name was
misleading.

But Campomar's success in the High Court does not mean it can re-release its
sports fragrance. The court thought restraining the company from using that
label had been justified. But it also thought the Federal Court had gone too far
in ruling that the company could not use the Nike name at all.

The court did not give Campomar blanket approval to release non-sporting Nike
products. It declined, however, to give Campomar free legal advice by telling it
what it could and could not legally market in Australia.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

             Copyright 2000 The Federal Capital Press of Australia
                                  Pty Limited


                             124 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 July 24, 2000

Tiger's open cheque

BYLINE: David Smith

SECTION: Pg. 84

LENGTH: 644 words


TIGER WOODS'S victory in the Millennium Open will help the world's number one
golfer clinch a new deal with Nike worth at least £66 million.

The £500,000 first prize won by the 24-year-old American sensation at St Andrews
is only pocket money compared to the fortune he has already banked.

But by completing a Grand Slam of golf's majors, Woods has taken his earnings to
another level.

The biggest deal will be for wearing Nike's 'swoosh' emblem on his clothes,
shoes, glove and cap, and for using the new Nike golf ball.

Woods and his representatives from Mark McCormack's International Management
Group, are at present negotiating a renewal of the five-year contract worth £26m
that was signed with Nike in 1996.

Alastair Johnston, the Scot who is in charge of IMG's worldwide golf activities,
said: "There is no secret about the fact that the first five years Tiger had
with Nike was a $ 40 million deal. So if you started with that, doubled it, and
added some on, you'd be getting close to the new figure."

Besides Nike, Woods has blue-chip endorsement contracts with American Express,
Buick and Rolex. These, and other sponsorships, were reported to have added £45m
to his bank balance last year. Earnings away from the golf course - Woods takes
a personal interest in his portfolio of stocks and shares - easily dwarf his
earnings on the fairways and greens.

However, career prize money totalling £20 million means he now rivals retired
basketball star Michael Jordan as the sportsman with the highest earning
potential.

Johnston said: "I have a view, somewhat speculative but not entirely inaccurate,
that Michael Jordan didn't make as much money as people think he did. But I do
know, for sure, what Tiger Woods makes to the last penny. If he hasn't passed
Michael by now, he's about to very soon."

Others are not so happy about the way Woods now dominates the game. Jack
Nicklaus warned today that the public will turn away from the game if one man
dominates for too long.

Nicklaus, who won 18 majors, said: "Tiger is good for the game but he has to
have challengers for the whole thing to be right.

"It's a bad story if there isn't a challenge.

"Right now Tiger is the dominant player. Everybody else has thrown up the white
flag and surrendered, I don't think there's anybody contending.

"Maybe some guy is going to come along and compete against him. If that doesn't
happen, the game of golf is going to suffer."

After Woods crushed all opposition during the US Open at Pebble Beach last
month, Standard Sport revealed how some television executives were nervous that
the boom in viewing figures inspired by the world's No 1 ranked player might be
reversed if he turned winning into a monotonous exercise.

Their fears will hardly have been eased by the way in which Woods turned the
129th Open into a one-horse race.

David Duval, the world No 2 who led the chase after Woods going into the last
day, had been left trailing in the distance long before he crashed to a
quadruple bogey eight at the notorious 17th Road Hole.

Ernie Els, the Surrey-based South African ranked three in the world, finished
tied for second place with Denmark's Thomas Bjorn eight strokes in arrears.
Colin Montgomerie, the European No 1 who is fourth in the world rankings, was
joint 26th. Lee Westwood, fifth in the world, was 64th.

Even Spanish prodigy Sergio Garcia failed to maintain an early tournament
challenge and finished 17 strokes behind.

In golf terms, Woods was so far ahead that his win could be compared to Michael
Schumacher lapping an entire Grand Prix grid or Pete Sampras winning Wimbledon
in straight sets to love.

Els, runner-up to Woods at Pebble Beach, admitted: "I was playing in a different
tournament to Tiger. I play the regular Tour event, and he plays his own event."


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TIGER WOODS SHOWS OFF HIS TROPHY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             125 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                November 4, 2000

United swoosh worth (pounds) 300m

BYLINE: By DANIEL TAYLOR, Guardian Service

SECTION: CITY EDITION; SPORT; SOCCER/NEWS; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 566 words


Manchester United's status as the world's richest club was given further
credence last night when they confirmed the details of a (pounds) 302.9 million
sterling kit deal with Nike.

The 13-year contract will be the most lucrative tie-up in sporting history when
it comes into operation in August 2002, replacing United's present Umbro deal.

The provisional details of the agreement were leaked from Old Trafford last
month, prompting a minor setback in negotiations between the two parties and the
threat of legal action from Umbro.

The deal eclipses the previous record contract between Nike and the Brazilian
team of (pounds) 67 million over 10 years and, as part of the deal, United will
also receive 50 per cent of profits from the sale of club merchandise.

Nike have been looking at increasing their presence in English football over the
last few years, but this is the biggest coup of all after clinching deals with
the likes of Arsenal and Leeds United.

The deal will bring in at least (pounds) 23 million for United each year.
Profits on top of the fees will be shared 50/50 by United and Nike. Although the
agreement runs for 13 years, Nike has an option to call it off in 2008.

Nike's payments will be reduced if the team does not finish in the top half of
the Premiership, or does not compete in European competitions, the club said in
a statement. Shares in Manchester United, which stopped trading prior to the
announcement, had gained one per cent yesterday to 232p. Not such good news for
United is that Mark Bosnich will undergo a hernia operation next week which will
rule out the out-of-favour goalkeeper for five weeks.

Alex Ferguson has tipped Steve McClaren to succeed him as Manchester United
manager. Ferguson has no doubts that his assistant has all the credentials
needed to take over from him when he retires at the end of next season.

McClaren, who replaced Brian Kidd as Ferguson's right-hand man in February 1999,
has never really been touted for the job before and he was perceived to be
lacking in experience.

Ferguson said: "Steve has been brilliant since he came here. He has shown a
willingness to learn. It is not my decision to make, but I would have thought
all the credentials were there for Steve to take the job.

"The club is in good shape, which I know the chief executive Peter Kenyon
regards as one of the most important things. There is a big decision to be
taken, which will be made at the right time."

Barnsley have signed the Middlesbrough midfielder Neil Maddison on a month's
loan. The 31-year-old is expected to make his debut against Wimbledon at
Oakwell. The 29-year-old American goalkeeper Brad Friedel has been granted a
work permit, clearing the way for his move from Liverpool to Blackburn Rovers.

Celtic and Rangers have been paired together in the semi-finals of the Scottish
League Cup. The Old Firm will square up at Hampden Park in February.

AC Milan have threatened the Italian Football Federation with legal action
unless they allow the Serie A side to field all five of their non-EU players
after a court judgement in a separate matter on Thursday, the club's website
reported.

The club made the threat in a letter sent to the federation and countersigned by
the five players: Ukrainian striker Andriy Schevchenko, Brazilian trio Dida,
Serginho and Roque Junior and Croatian Zvonimir Boban.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2000 The Irish Times


                             126 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                          September 23, 2000 Saturday
                                  City Edition

Fremont native stars in Nike ad

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 220 words


FREMONT-- It wasn't quite the "Man in the Iron Mask," but Fremont native Brett
Sheridan thought being the man behind the mask might be his chance for fame.

That is until the NBC television network pulled the Nike ad featuring a masked
and chainsaw-wielding Sheridan chasing Olympic distance runner Suzy Favor
Hamilton.

Nike Shoe Co. was informed Monday that NBC would discontinue airing the ad based
on viewer complaints about its violent nature, thus ending his run on network
television.

The ad, "Horror," was one of a series of three ads to debut during weekend
coverage of the Olympic games.

Sheridan, a 1992 graduate of Fremont Senior High School, said he knew he was
onto something big with the commercial, which is a parody of popular horror
films such as the "Friday the 13th" and "Halloween" series.

The actor said directors and producers chose him to portray the horror figure
for his physical comedy. Even though the ad has been discontinued on NBC during
Olympic coverage, Sheridan said it could help his career.

The actor, who lives in California, has been featured in about 12 television and
radio commercials in addition to performing stand-up comedy.

His mother, Julie Sheridan of Fremont, said she doesn't know what the fuss is
about. She likes the commercial.

The ad will continue to air on the cable network ESPN.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2000 Lincoln Journal Star,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             127 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 28, 2000, Thursday

FOOTBALL: NIKE JUST DO IT FOR UNITED

BYLINE: Gary Jones & James Fletcher

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 324 words


MANCHESTER United have struck one of the world's biggest financial soccer deals
with sports kit giant Nike.

American-based Nike have agreed to pay United an estimated pounds 300million for
an exclusive 15-year deal.

United are shortly set to announce the tie-up which will begin when their
current deal with Umbro runs out in 2002.

Last night Nike were taken aback when Mirror Sport spoke to their London head
office about the done deal, which will be unveiled within days at a Press
conference.

A spokesman said: "We've not confirmed it yet. Who told you about this? Was it
United?

"We're waiting to find out the details. We've not been given all the info."

United started a bidding war between rival sports companies which began at
pounds 15million-a-year but quickly escalated until rivals to Nike realised they
could not win.

Nike were desperate to win the contract and made it clear in negotiations with
United that they would beat any other offer on the table.

The sportswear company, which has a pounds 5billion turnover, shattered its own
record to complete the deal.

Nike, who already have boot and clothing deals with United stars Andy Cole, Paul
Scholes, Dwight Yorke and Ole Gunner Solskjaer, were determined to get United at
any cost.

Nike recently signed up the Brazilian FA in a staggering 10-year deal worth
pounds 64.4m that covers every national team.

But that is still way short of what United will receive for allowing Nike to put
their distinctive 'tick' logo on the millions of famous red and white strips
sold around the world each year.

Nike which also has top sporting figures on its books like Michael Jordan,
Ronaldo and Michael Johnson, have made no secret of their desire for world
domination.

United were top of its "must have" list.

Nike are also head hunting United manager Sir Alex Ferguson to become their
football ambassador on around pounds 1m-a-year.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DWIGHT Yorke and keeper Mark Bosnich fly home are all smiles despite
their 3-1 drubbing at PSV

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             128 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                          January 19, 2000, Wednesday

Running steps into space-age in peel-off shoes

BYLINE: TOM SALOM

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 382 words


SPORTS giant Nike is designing a disposable running shoe that could be used at
the Sydney Olympics.

The ultra-lightweight shoe can only be worn once and will be limited to
sprinters contesting the 100 and 200 metre events.

Testing of the shoe is due to be finalised in June, along with space-age running
uniforms for the Sydney Games.

The project could revolutionise the traditional running shoe, which often has to
be worn-in by elite athletes.

But Nike designers in the United States believe the disposable shoe could be
moulded around the feet and almost peeled off after the event.

It is believed athletes sponsored by Nike, including Australia's Cathy Freeman,
will be asked to trial the shoe.

Freeman is already involved in a separate Nike project -- codenamed Swift --
aimed at producing aerodynamic sprinting uniforms.

Nike apparel designer Eddy Harber was in Sydney last month to speak to Freeman
and measure prevailing wind conditions at Stadium Australia.

Mr Harber, a former body armour designer with the British Army, hopes to come up
with a fabric called Lycrapower that would limit muscle vibration during a race.

Nike has used speed skating body suits as a basis for the design.

The low friction garment would also take body temperature and friction into
account and will be tested by Freeman and US sprinters Michael Johnson, Marion
Jones and Maurice Greene.

"It will also be offered to associated Nike federations -- and the Australian
Olympic team is now incorporated in that," Mr Harber said.

Nike took over the production of Australian team gear late last year after
Reebok quit its Olympic sponsorship.

Australian Olympic Committee officials are expected to be briefed on Project
Swift later this month when a Nike team visits Sydney.

The space age uniforms would be worn by sprinters, hurdlers, and long and triple
jumpers.

Last year Mr Harber's design team came up with a relay glove featuring a glowing
orange stripe to indicate where the baton should be placed.

The glove contains a sticky palm and has been approved by international athletic
officials.

It was offered to Australian relay runners at last year's world track and field
titles but they were reluctant to trial it.

The AOC now wants to examine the glove.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             129 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                     August 24, 2000 Thursday Final Edition

Woods balls unavailable

SOURCE: News Services

SECTION: Sports; Golf Notebook; Pg. A51

LENGTH: 230 words

Tiger Woods endorses Nike Tour Accuracy golf balls, but he really plays with
custom-made balls unavailable to duffers, Nike has acknowledged after being sued
in U.S. federal court.

Nike Inc. said the balls used by Woods, who's one of the longest hitters in
golf, have a slightly harder inner and outer core than the balls sold to the
public.

Mike Kelly, marketing director for Nike Golf, said it's common practice to sell
the public different products than what the pros use.

But other leading names in golf say their customers get what their pros endorse.

Joe Gomes, a spokesman for Titleist, said its players use the same products they
advertise. And if a player uses a "tweaked" version of a club, he said, a
consumer could special order it.

Meanwhile, the Society of Professional Journalists has asked the 6th Circuit
Court of Appeals in Ohio to reject an appeal by Woods in a right-of-publicity
suit.

The Indianapolis-based organization says Woods's appeal threatens First
Amendment rights.

Woods sued Alabama artist Rick Rush after he painted Woods at the Masters in
April 1997 and then sold 250 limited-edition serigraphs and 5,000 smaller
lithographs. Woods claims the sale of the paintings violates his trademark and
right of publicity.

Woods lost the first round of the suit in April when U.S. district judge
Patricia Gaughan threw out the case.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Associated Press; Defending champ Tiger Woods watches his
approach to the par-5 second hole go over the green at Firestone Country Club in
Akron, Ohio, during practice for the NEC Invitational Wednesday.

TYPE: Brief; Sports

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             131 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 27, 2000

Wrap up Christmas;
Chance to win GBP 1,000 of great fashion vouchers

SECTION: Pg. 41

LENGTH: 409 words


THE Scottish Daily Mail and Sterling Mills Designer Outlet Village are offering
readers the chance to win GBP 1 ,000 worth of shopping vouchers.

Every day this week, you have the chance to win GBP 1,000 to spend in one or
more of the fantastic stores at the Village just in time for Christmas.

At Sterling Mills at Tillicoultry, Clackmannanshire, you can take your pick from
production surpluses, end of line or end of season merchandise, from some of the
most famous names in high street fashion.

And all products are between 30 and 70 per cent cheaper than high street prices.

Open seven days a week, from 10am to 6pm, and with more than 35 stores, you can
pick up some great labels without picking up the price tags.

Today's winner will have the chance to spend GBP 1,000 in the Nike Factory
Outlet Store which is the only one of its kind in Scotland.

Nike is dedicated to helping athletes at all levels, triumph over challenges on
the court, field, track and trails of the world.

And for that reason it is committed to offering the world's best sports apparel,
footwear, accessories and equipment.

At Nike Factory Store customers are able to buy quality branded products which
are at least 30 per cent less that the recommended retail price.

This month sees even further mark downs on various Nike Vision glasses and Nike
Timing watches.

The Nike Factory Store selects products from prior seasons so the customer can
buy authentic goods at factory store prices.

If you are the winner of this fabulous prize, For your chance to win call 0901
111 0141. Leave your name and telephone number where you can be contacted
between 10am and noon tomorrow. Calls cost 25p and cannot be accepted on any
other number.

Alternatively, fax your entry to 0870 909 0119 or email your name and telephone
number to: sterlingmills@dmail.entri es.co.uk Only one email per person. All
entries must be received before midnight today.

The winner will be the first entry drawn at random after the competition closes
and will be contacted by the Scottish Daily Mail before noon tomorrow.

No purchase necessary. Normal Scottish Daily Mail rules apply.There is no cash
or prize alternative. The Editor's decision is final.

How to get there: Sterling Mills Designer Outlet Village is at Tillicoultry near
Stirling opposite Sterling Furniture. Visit www.sterlingmills.com or call the
information line 01259 752100.


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             133 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 30, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Nike's Quarterly Profit Up 33%

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 266 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore., June 29


Nike Inc. said today that its fourth-quarter profit rose 33 percent, meeting
Wall Street expectations.

The company said it earned $126 million, or 46 cents a diluted share, compared
with $94.4 million, or 33 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.

The results matched analysts' estimates, according to First Call/ Thomson
Financial, which tracks company earnings.

Revenue in the period, which ended May 31, increased to $2.3 billion from $2.2
billion.

Nike's chairman, Philip Knight, said the company had solid growth outside the
United States, where a weak retail industry has cut into sales -- particularly
for athletic shoes -- with a string of closings among large retail chains like
Venator, the parent of Foot Locker.

"Within the U.S., the retail industry continued to struggle," Mr. Knight said.
"However, we did see some early signs of progress."

Over all, future orders in the United States were down 5 percent while those in
Europe increased 11 percent. Orders in the Asia-Pacific regions were up 21
percent and the region that includes South America increased 13 percent.

For the fiscal year ended May 31, Nike's earnings improved to $579 million, or
$2.07 a share, compared with $451 million, or $1.57 a share, in the period a
year earlier. Revenue increased to $9 billion from $8.8 billion.

Shares of Nike rose $1.125, to $40.1875, in trading on the New York Stock
Exchange. The company released its results after the close of trading.

Nike also announced plans to buy back $1 billion of stock after the completion
of a similar-sized purchase in two years.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             136 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                           October 31, 2000, Tuesday

Calls for Nike to get the boot

BYLINE: Benjamin Haslem

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 407 words


AUSTRALIA'S Paralympians should push to replace Nike as their sportswear
supplier in response to a degrading advertisement about the disabled, one of the
country's leading disability sports groups said yesterday.

Wheelchair Sports Australia chairman Michael Godfrey-Roberts foreshadowed a
consumer backlash against Nike and said the team should dump the company if
another manufacturer offered to step in.

But he acknowledged that finding a replacement would be tough and praised Nike's
overall record of supporting disabled sport in Australia.

Mr Godfrey-Roberts was commenting on a Nike advertisement describing disabled
people as drooling, misshapen husks roaming the earth in motorised wheelchairs.
The advertisement appeared in several US outdoor magazines available in
Australia.

"If we were in a fortunate position to be able to make a choice, I have a
feeling they would be saying: 'Thank you very much, Nike. We are going to a
competitor, they are nicer people,"' Mr Godfrey-Roberts said.

Disability groups and federal politicians yesterday joined the growing
international chorus condemning the clothing giant.

Democrats leader Meg Lees said Nike should boost its support of the Paralympic
team as compensation for the hurt it had caused.

Senator Lees described the advertisement as "appalling, unconscionable and
barely believable".

"An apology is nowhere near good enough," she said.

Opposition sports spokeswoman Kate Lundy agreed that Nike should consider such a
gesture.

"Any extra funding or support that the Paralympians can get out of Nike is a
positive thing and they should go for it," she said.

National Council on Intellectual Disability executive director Mark Pattison
said the advertisement was revolting. But he cautioned against punishing Nike
for one blunder, considering the company's history of supporting the disabled.

"They pulled the ad straight away and gave a reasonable apology," Mr Pattison
said.

"Even though it was appalling and tasteless and out of order, they have
responded in a semi-appropriate way."

Physical Disability Council of Australia president Maurice Corcoran said the
advertisement had damaged 20 years of work by advocacy groups fighting negative
attitudes towards the disabled.

Carolyn Frohmader, from Women With Disabilities, said disability group websites
around the world had been flooded with messages expressing outrage over the
advertisement.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             137 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 22, 2000

GOLF; NIKE ARE QUICK OFF MARK TO GET DUVAL AND STIR UP COMPETITION

BYLINE: BY MARTIN HARDY

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 297 words


David Duval will quit Titleist and join Nike's swoosh squad in a deal which will
rock the golf industry.

A five-year, $ 25million deal, which could double with bonuses, has been agreed
and is expected to be completed early in the New Year.

The deal will give Nike two of the world's top three golfers - a similar-length
deal, but double the cost, having already been signed with No 1 Tiger Woods.

The two good friends teamed up recently to win the World Cup for America in
Argentina and, significantly, used the Nike ball during the foursomes section of
the four-day event. Duval has also been spotted wearing his new sponsor's shoes.

A deal is understood to have been signed at Nike head- quarters in Oregon this
week, but will not be completed until Duval's existing contract with Titleist is
sorted out.

It stills has more than two years to run and Titleist, already smarting due to
Woods' abdication, could seek compensation from the firm which is fast becoming
a serious player in the golf market Titleist have dominated. Duval's switch is
expected to increase intensity of that rivalry and extend the boundaries of the
golf ball wars which Callaway, another of the industry's big guns, have recently
joined.

Neither company would comment on the deal yesterday although an announcement is
imminent.

Although Woods still plays a full bag of Titleist clubs, Duval's deal is
understood to include clauses which tie him to Nike once they've manufactured a
set to his specifications.

World No 3 Duval's also expected to sign a new agreement with his management
handlers IMG at the start of next year.

Although Duval's been hampered for most of the season by a back injury, he
finished seventh on the PGA Tour rankings with $ 2.4m in prize money.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                             138 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 15, 2000, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Woods' Nike deal may pay $ 100M

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: SPORTS; GOLF; Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 418 words



Tiger Woods signed a five-year endorsement contract with Nike on Thursday that
is thought to be worth between $ 85-million and $ 100-million, making it the
richest endorsement deal in sports history.

The exact worth is hard to estimate because some value is tied to sales and
incentives. The new deal begins when Woods' five-year, $ 40-million deal with
Nike expires in September of 2001.

Mark Steinberg, Woods' agent at IMG, declined to discuss specifics of the deal,
only to say it was an "outstanding contract."

Bob Wood, president of Nike Golf, also refused to reveal specifics, but he was
elated.

"The final details were worked out about 90 minutes ago," Wood said.

"We've been negotiating for about 18 months, but IMG, Nike and Tiger have all
been in the same ballpark for a while now," Wood continued. "A lot of people
thought we overpaid for Tiger in his original deal, but we don't feel we
overpaid for him then, and we don't feel we overpaid for him now. We think it's
a fair deal for everybody. He's had a huge impact on Nike and on Nike golf, and
we think that will continue for the next 25 years or more.

"A lot of people have compared Tiger to Michael Jordan, but one thing that makes
them different is that the career of a professional golfer is so much longer
than the career of a basketball player. The earning power of a professional
golfer is far greater over the course of a lifetime."

At 24, Woods has won all four major championships, becoming the youngest to
complete the career Grand Slam, and he holds the all-time scoring record in all
four majors in relation to par. He won three major championships and nine PGA
events this year.

U.S. MID-AMATEUR: Greg Puga, a 29-year-old caddie at a California club, became
the youngest winner in the 20-year history of the event with a 3-and-1 victory
over a faltering Wayne Raath at Hot Springs, Va. Puga turns 30 on Oct. 13. The
youngest champion was Bill Loeffler, who was 30 years and two months old when he
won in 1986. The U.S. Mid-Amateur is for those 25 and older. With his victory,
Puga is eligible for next year's Mid-Am, the U.S. Amateur and the Masters. Puga
was 2-down after the front nine but caught the 25-year-old South African by
making a critical 10-foot par putt on the 10th, birdie on the 11th and a par
putt on No. 12 when Raath drove into a lateral hazard. Puga won three of the
last four holes with pars, as Raath three-putted the 17th to close out the match
at the Homestead's Cascades Course.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                             139 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             April 30, 2000, Sunday

KNIGHT, NIKE WIN A BATTLE OF OVERSIGHT

BYLINE: Beth Piskora and Jesse Angelo

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 058

LENGTH: 247 words


If national sympathies toward the monitoring of sweatshops move noticeably in
the near future away from aggressive oversight and toward the Kathie Lee Gifford
"We Try Hard So Cut Us a Break" approach, let the record reflect the decisive
battle waged last week between Nike's Phil Knight and his beloved alma mater,
the University of Oregon.

Knight, who has already donated $50 million to the school, said he would hold
onto a proposed $30 million donation and not contribute another dime because the
university aligned itself with the more aggressive monitoring group, financed by
trade unions and allegedly stacked against importers.

Nike, which has been the favorite pinata of the aggressive monitoring forces,
belongs to a different watchdog group.

Word on the Street is that Knight has scored a KO in the testy dust-up. A survey
of analysts revealed not a one that thought Nike would be harmed by the spat.

"Knight is standing up for what he believes and people here in Portland, at
least the ones I've talked to, are definitely siding with Knight," said Jennifer
Black, of Black & Co., based in the heart of Nike country. "I don't see any
negative fallout from Knight's action."

John Shanley, of First Security Van Kasper, concurred. "Nike has reduced the
number of factories it contracts with to 30 from 110 last year in order to
monitor them better, so I think informed investor won't care about this flap."


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHIL KNIGHT Fighter.  Luiz C. Ribeiro

           Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                             140 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            August 22, 2000 Tuesday

United States

SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS: THE WALL STREET JOURNAL; What's News; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 162 words


Nike Inc. said it will form a new unit to focus on women's footwear and apparel
in an effort to fend off intensifying competition in the women's athletic
market. The sportswear concern plans to announce today that the new unit will
incorporate the separate divisions that oversee women's footwear and apparel and
have its own marketing team and budget. This new initiative comes at a time when
Nike is competing against a growing number of new high-end players in the
women's athletic market - companies ranging from Tommy Hilfiger Corp., GAP Inc.,
Polo Ralph Lauren Corp. and fashion houses such as Prada of Italy that are
popular with the "GenY" crowd. Nike said it plans to spend two to three times
more on its women's business in the next year than it did in the previous year.
The unit will have about 1,000 employees, including 170 people it hired from Liz
Claiborne Inc., Levi Strauss & Co. and other fashion companies in the past 18
months to focus on women's apparel.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2000 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             143 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                          April 9, 2000, Sunday, FINAL

But there's more to our name than a swoosh, Nike complains

SECTION: The Citizen's Weekly; C2

LENGTH: 486 words


When Toronto journalist Naomi Klein took a shot at the world's ''brand- name
bullies'' earlier this year, she not only added fuel to a growing
counter-culture fire, she ticked off the brass in the boardrooms of at least one
multi-national -- Nike.

Ms. Klein's anti-logo broadside, contained in her new book No Logo: Taking Aim
at the Brand Bullies (Alfred A. Knopf), railed at the branding of North America
by industrial giants like Nike.

She says branding, the advertising technique of emphasizing a company logo
instead of a product, has sparked a backlash among young people tired of being
forced to live in a corporate ''brandscape.''

Among the villains in modern manufacturing, she says, is Nike. ''They don't
bother making products anymore,'' she says. ''They farm out the labour overseas
instead, choosing to spend the bulk of their money on what they really
manufacture: a logo or a brand.''

Nike, she said, doesn't even sell a product in the conventional sense; they sell
an image, or a lifestyle, or an emotion.

Well, just a minute ... Nike replies in a stinging response to Ms. Klein's
''self- proclaimed cultural analysis'' posted on its Web site (www.nikebiz.com).

''Although the book includes numerous references to Disney Corp., McDonald's and
Microsoft, the author spends the most time analysing Nike's marketing
strategies, corporate goodwill activities and manufacturing practices.

''In particular,'' Nike complained, ''the author dedicates a large portion of
the book to an often misinformed, unbalanced evaluation of Nike's labour
practices.

''While Nike respects the rights of interested parties to make their opinions
known to the general public, it is also important to recognize the complexities
of global manufacturing issues and the strides Nike has made in this area.

''In numerous instances, No Logo diminishes the progress Nike has made by
dredging up past events, repeating misinformation and often failing to tell the
whole story. The book constantly references incidents that occurred in the early
1990s and liberally quotes many of Nike's detractors, yet fails to reference any
of Nike's more recent, 'industry-first' labour initiatives.''

And what's more, Nike adds, ''Ms. Klein never met with any current Nike labour
practices representatives during the writing of this book.''

In a 1,300-word, point-by-point defence of its North American and overseas
operations, Nike took Ms. Klein to task for disparaging the company's commitment
''to enhance people's lives through sports and fitness.''

''At Nike, we see this as a positive attribute. There is no mistaking that Nike
is passionate about sports and fitness. And when it comes to global
manufacturing and trade, we want to be just as clear about what we stand for and
what we do.''

No Logo: Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies, by Naomi Klein, is published by Alfred
A. Knopf, ($35.95).


LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: P Black & White Photo: Nike comes out kicking at Naomi Klein's anti-
branding arguments.

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             144 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    August 24, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Woods's Golf Balls Roll Into Suit

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 835 words


Tiger Woods endorses Nike Tour Accuracy golf balls in TV and magazine ads, but
he really plays with custom-made golf balls unavailable to everyday duffers,
Nike acknowledged Tuesday after being sued in federal court in San Francisco.

Nike Inc. said the golf balls used by Woods, who is one of the longest hitters
in the game with drives that travel 300-plus yards, have a slightly harder inner
and outer core than the golf balls sold to the public.

"Those two elements are slightly firmer than the marketed ball," Nike Golf
marketing director Mike Kelly told the Associated Press.

Kelly said it is common practice in the golfing world to sell the public
different products than what the pros really use. But other leading names in
golf said their customers get what their pros endorse.

Joe Gomes, a spokesman for Titleist, said its players use the same products they
advertise. And if a player uses a "tweaked" version of a club, he said, a
consumer could special-order it.

"We are very particular about our advertisements. We don't make any claims that
cannot be substantiated in both golf balls and clubs," Gomes said.

Woods's agent, Mark Steinberg, did not immediately return a phone call
requesting comment on the lawsuit. In the suit, a nonprofit group called Public
Remedies Inc. claimed Nike, based in Beaverton, Ore., was engaging in unfair
business practices. It asks that Nike's "ill-gotten gains" be restored to the
public.

Woods officially switched to the Nike Tour Accuracy golf ball before the U.S.
Open, the first of his three major championships this year. The move officially
ended a marketing conflict between Woods's top two golf sponsors--Nike and
Titleist--that began last year when Nike entered the golf ball market.

Titleist argued that Nike was using Woods to promote golf balls because of two
commercials--one that showed Woods bouncing a ball off his wedge and another
that showed hackers on the range belting 300-yard drives as soon as Woods showed
up.

Titleist contemplated a lawsuit, but instead reworked Woods's deal so that he
was paid only when he used Titleist equipment in tournaments. Titleist also gave
up its right to have its logo on his bag and to use Woods in advertisements.

Football

Pizza Wars

A showdown over who can offer pizza promotions with the Washington Redskins is
in the works.

The Redskins are protesting Washington area Domino's pizza stores' offer of a
discount on pies for every touchdown the team scores. Frank Meeks, who owns 60
Domino's in the area, said Tuesday the discount is good for every Monday after a
Sunday game or the Tuesday following a Monday night game.

But yesterday the team released a statement stating only Papa John's pizza has
the right to offer promotions affiliated with the Redskins.

"We're talking to them [Domino's] about the fact that they're using a promotion
developed last year in conjunction with us," Redskins spokesman Karl Swanson
said.

Swanson said the team's agreement with Domino's expired in June and the Redskins
have since reached a marketing deal with Papa John's to be the "official pizza"
of the team. He added that Domino's pizza no longer will be sold at games in
FedEx Field.

"Only Papa John's can create and offer a promotion tied to the Washington
Redskins," Redskins President Steve Baldacci said.

Meeks said Domino's outlets from West Virginia to Maryland will offer the
promotion again because it was such a success.

"We started it," Meeks said. "We will continue to do it this year. It's not a
Redskins promotion. It's called 'The Domino's Pizza Touchdown Take Off.' "

Basketball

Hoyas Get Recruit

Georgetown men's basketball coach Craig Esherick announced that RaMell Ross, a
6-foot-4 swingman from Lake Braddock High in Burke, will join the Hoyas this
fall. Ross, who missed his senior season because of shoulder surgery, averaged
20.7 points, 6 rebounds and 4 assists per game as a junior.

"I like RaMell's versatility," Esherick said. "He played three positions in high
school and has the flexibility to do the same at the college level."

Boxing

Tyson Promoter Exits

Don't expect Mike Tyson to fight in Great Britain again any time soon.

Promoter Frank Warren said he would not handle any more Tyson fights, even
though the British Boxing Board of Control cleared the former world heavyweight
champion to fight in the country.

"No. I will not promote him again," Warren told BBC radio.

Soccer

Wizards, MetroStars Tie

Tony Meola made a Kansas City-record nine saves for his Major League
Soccer-record 14th shutout of the season as the visiting Wizards and New
York-New Jersey MetroStars played to a scoreless tie.

Outdoors

Potomac Bass Fishing

Mark Pack of Mineola, Tex., took the lead after the first day of the four-day
Bassmaster Maryland Top 150 tournament in Charles County with a haul of 15
pounds 7 ounces.

"I think I can catch a limit every day," Pack said. "In fact I backed off some
of my spots today."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                             146 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             July 23, 2000, Sunday

Everything you needed to know about the latest golfing phenomenon

SECTION: Sport

LENGTH: 630 words


Q

So Tiger has made a few quid out of golf then? A

So far, his career earnings are a tidy $ 16,291,560, easily more than anybody
has made on the golf course but chickenfeed in the big scheme of things. Last
year, he earned $ 47m, including endorsements. His first contract with Nike was
worth $ 60m alone. Phil Knight, the Nike chairman, has said that Tiger will
always sport the Nike swoosh. Earl Woods, Tiger's's father, has told Knight that
Nike will have to come up with more money every time his boy puts pen to paper.

Q

What other endorsements does he have?

A

His second biggest deal is with Titleist, whose clubs he uses. He also endorses
American Express, Rolex and Wheaties, but he says money is a bad second to
career achievements in his priorities. He prove this by sacking his agent,
Hughes Norton. These days, Tiger suits himself.

Q

Staggering success, incredible riches must make him a powerful kind of guy?

A

He came in at No 7 in the latest Forbes Power 100, a list of entertainment and
sports personalities headed by Julia Roberts. However, there are signs that he
is on the way up the list. Forbes counted 32,974 press articles about Tiger.
Roberts, by comparison, was practically snubbed with only 9,978 clippings to her
name.

Q

What's this about never missing the cut?

A

He has made 52 consecutive cuts and he's almost halfway to another record. Byron
Nelson made 113 cuts back in the 1940s.

Q

Is there any time for a lady in his life?

A

He now has a steady blonde beau, Joanna Jagoda, right. Before they became an
item, he was linked to a series of potential girlfriends, including model Tyra
Banks. "I didn't even know I dated them. I don' have a girlfriend. None," he
said at the time.

Q

Blossoming romance obviously hasn't put him off his game. Would it be fair to
say that he has been successful lately?

A

He has won of his last 22 PGA Tour events and 16 of his last 29 tournaments
overall. He has played in 82 PGA Tour events and won 20 of them (24.4%). He has
34 top-three finishes (41.5%), 43 top-five finishes (52.4%), and 53 top-10
finishes (64.6%).

Q

He seems to hit the ball a mile down the St Andrews fairways. What's the secret
of his prodigious length?

A

Sports Illustrated magazine claimed he "comes closer to achieving optimum launch
conditions - a combination of swing speed and angle of impact -than any of the
more than 300 touring pros Titleist has tested over the last 20 years".

Q

And what is his weapon of choice?

A

Tiger uses a Titleist Titanium 975D driver with just 7.5 degrees of loft. A club
golfer would struggle to get his ball airborne with that. His Titleist
three-wood has 13 degrees of loft. He has three wedges in his bag, largely
because his drives generally put him so close to the hole.

Q

He covers his driver with a fluffy Tiger. What's all that about?

A

His mother, Kutilda, made it for him. The words "Love from Mom", in Thai, are
stitched on it.

Q

Who hands him his clubs on the course?

A

Tiger's caddie is Steve Williams, who was on Ray Floyd's bag for 12 years and
also did a brief tour of duty with Greg Norman. "Steve knows when to say
something and when not to say something," he said last week. Tiger's first
caddie, Fluff Cowan was sacked. Some people thought he was getting a bit carried
away with his celebrity status.

Q

Speaking of celebrities, his coach is a bit of a star too, isn't he?

A

And charming with it. Butch Harmon is the man, although his real name is Claude.
He once played on the US Tour, but he has had far more success as a swing
doctor.

Q

Will he be handed the claret jug later today?

A

Has Colin Montgomerie ever barked at a photographer?


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Golf; British Open; Profile; Tiger Woods

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited


                             148 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                         May 25, 2000, Thursday, FINAL

Computer Bytes

BYLINE: Tamara Gignac, Calgary Herald

SECTION: Computers; G6 / FRONT

LENGTH: 492 words


Calgary firm runs down Nike contract

Sports equipment giant Nike Inc.  has signed on Calgary-based Internet services
firm Critical Mass to develop personalized online marketing and e-commerce
strategies to enhance NIKE iD, an interactive portion of Nike.com where
consumers can customize and purchase athletic shoes.

Services provided by Critical Mass will range from strategic consulting to Web
design and application development.

The firm has already designed sites for Mercedes-Benz USA, Proctor & Gamble and
Smirnoff Vodka.

Free Internet provider expands into Spanish

Internet service provider Cybersurf says it has developed a Spanish-language
version of its advertisement-supported free Internet service, the 3web network
(www. 3web.net).

The Toronto-based company will supply its technologies to various regional ISPs,
portals and distribution and support companies in Latin America. A
Portuguese-language version is currently in development.

The deal between Cybersurf and Latin Net will see the ISP enter markets in Spain
and Portugal as well as South and Central America.

Intel quadruples flash production

Intel Corp., the world's largest computer chip maker, says it plans to spend $2
billion US over two years to quadruple production of flash memory chips to meet
soaring demand.

The chips, which retain data in electronic devices when the power is off, are in
heavy demand as sales of cellphones, handheld organizers and other devices
increase.

Intel will convert plants in California, Oregon, New Mexico and Colorado to make
flash memory using the 0.18 micron process, which etches lines smaller than
1/500th the width of a human hair.

That will lift the number of flash-memory megabytes produced fourfold, said Curt
Nichols, general manger of Intel's flash products group.

IBM reaches deal to build chips for Compaq

IBM has reached a deal to build advanced chips for a key line of Compaq Computer
Corp.  computers, and separately unveiled new versions of its own mainstay
AS/400 business computers.

The Compaq deal shows IBM is making progress in its bid to become a supplier of
components not only for use in its own products, but also those of rival
computer makers.

While IBM's semiconductor business comprises less than 10 per cent of its nearly
$90 billion US in annual revenues, the company's shift to higher margin products
should help bolster the company's overall profitability, analysts say. Sources
close to the company say IBM will likely sign similar deals with Hewlett-Packard
and Apple.

''IBM sees itself not only as a computer company, but as an arms merchant to its
competitors,'' Kurt King, an analyst with Banc of America Montgomery, said.

Authors online

Time Warner's new iPublish.com business will be part of the company's publishing
house. The company plans to release electronic books by authors such as David
Baldacci, Walter Mosley and Robert Kiyosaki.


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             150 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                            August 25, 2000, Friday

Parasites take their places for the Olympic piggyback event / GAME PLAN

BYLINE: Michael McGuire

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 684 words


Companies aligning themselves with the Games must be clever, not crass

AMBUSH marketing is one of the big naughty words associated with the Olympics.
There is a perception that ambush equates with dirty and underhand -- that there
is something sordid about the process.

The only thing worse than ambush at the Olympics is drugs at the Olympics. It
really is that serious. To some, anyway.

But there is also a feeling that any ambush will be huge and obvious.

Most of this expectation stems from the Nike experience at Atlanta, which is
widely regarded as the benchmark for all ambush efforts.

The story of Nike and Atlanta became the business story of the 1996 Games, and
the size, nature and sophistication of the ambush has only become bigger in the
intervening years.

For example Nike booked every billboard in Atlanta during the Games.

For Sydney, the rules have been changed and this would be impossible.

But the reality is that Nike was the exception and not the rule. Those expecting
another company to be as aggressive as Nike in Sydney are likely to be sorely
disappointed. Not least because Nike is now inside the Olympic tent.

Any overt ambush marketing is thus unlikely to be on a large scale, not least
because the International Olympic Committee is becoming ever more zealous in its
protection of sponsor rights.

And just to clear up how the IOC defines ambush marketing: "Olympic ambush
marketing occurs when a company that does not financially support the Olympic
movement attempts to present itself as an Olympic marketing partner.

"This is done through advertising or promotion that is designed to mislead the
public."

The IOC refers to this as "parasite activity". Although in the Nike case,
parasites can be rehabilitated -- all it takes is a lot of money.

Large-scale ambush marketing action is unlikely to be spotted in Sydney.
However, this does not mean many non-Olympic sponsors won't be doing their
utmost to be associated with sport in some form or other.

After all, it's basically sound business practice to be associated with an event
that is projected to attract a global television audience of more than 20
billion.

It just means that rather than paying for front-row seats, you pay a little less
to sit further back in the auditorium, but the important thing is to be in the
auditorium.

One case study of what smart companies are doing is the marketing program at the
Australian Institute of Sport.

It is no coincidence that this year the AIS's sponsorship budget has climbed to
a record high of $18 million. The AIS managed to raise $2 million when it
started its sponsorship program in 1992.

But what is instructive in the AIS case is not so much the amount of money that
has been raised but the nature of the companies involved -- there is nary an
Olympic sponsor in sight.

Even better, most are direct competitors of Olympic sponsors.

Among the main sponsors of the AIS are computer giants Microsoft and Compaq,
which are both direct competitors to Olympic sponsor IBM.

Olympic sponsor Goodman Fielder also faces a double-barrelled attack from
competitors keen to take on the sporting mantle. Bread brand TipTop, owned by
Australian Stock Exchange-listed George Weston, is a sponsor, as well as cereal
manufacturer Kellogg's, which competes with the Goodman Fielder-owned Uncle
Toby's.

Soft-drink maker Berri supplies the sport drink Isosport, which is battling for
share in that market segment with Coca-Cola's Powerade.

Berri also distributes Summit spring water as an AIS-endorsed product, which
again goes head-to-head with Coke's Mount Franklin spring water brand.

Also named as a principal sponsor is food group Nestle. Unilever is the official
Olympic sponsor.

In fact, the only Olympic sponsor that makes the AIS principal sponsor list is
Ansett.

Now, none of this could by any stretch of the imagination be designated as
ambush marketing.

But it is smart marketing to try and drum up a sporting link in an Olympic year.

Expect many more companies to try it.

mcguirem@matp.newsltd.com.au

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             151 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                            August 25, 2000, Friday

Parasites take their places for the Olympic piggyback event / GAME PLAN

BYLINE: Michael McGuire

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 684 words


Companies aligning themselves with the Games must be clever, not crass

AMBUSH marketing is one of the big naughty words associated with the Olympics.
There is a perception that ambush equates with dirty and underhand -- that there
is something sordid about the process.

The only thing worse than ambush at the Olympics is drugs at the Olympics. It
really is that serious. To some, anyway.

But there is also a feeling that any ambush will be huge and obvious.

Most of this expectation stems from the Nike experience at Atlanta, which is
widely regarded as the benchmark for all ambush efforts.

The story of Nike and Atlanta became the business story of the 1996 Games, and
the size, nature and sophistication of the ambush has only become bigger in the
intervening years.

For example Nike booked every billboard in Atlanta during the Games.

For Sydney, the rules have been changed and this would be impossible.

But the reality is that Nike was the exception and not the rule. Those expecting
another company to be as aggressive as Nike in Sydney are likely to be sorely
disappointed. Not least because Nike is now inside the Olympic tent.

Any overt ambush marketing is thus unlikely to be on a large scale, not least
because the International Olympic Committee is becoming ever more zealous in its
protection of sponsor rights.

And just to clear up how the IOC defines ambush marketing: "Olympic ambush
marketing occurs when a company that does not financially support the Olympic
movement attempts to present itself as an Olympic marketing partner.

"This is done through advertising or promotion that is designed to mislead the
public."

The IOC refers to this as "parasite activity". Although in the Nike case,
parasites can be rehabilitated -- all it takes is a lot of money.

Large-scale ambush marketing action is unlikely to be spotted in Sydney.
However, this does not mean many non-Olympic sponsors won't be doing their
utmost to be associated with sport in some form or other.

After all, it's basically sound business practice to be associated with an event
that is projected to attract a global television audience of more than 20
billion.

It just means that rather than paying for front-row seats, you pay a little less
to sit further back in the auditorium, but the important thing is to be in the
auditorium.

One case study of what smart companies are doing is the marketing program at the
Australian Institute of Sport.

It is no coincidence that this year the AIS's sponsorship budget has climbed to
a record high of $18 million. The AIS managed to raise $2 million when it
started its sponsorship program in 1992.

But what is instructive in the AIS case is not so much the amount of money that
has been raised but the nature of the companies involved -- there is nary an
Olympic sponsor in sight.

Even better, most are direct competitors of Olympic sponsors.

Among the main sponsors of the AIS are computer giants Microsoft and Compaq,
which are both direct competitors to Olympic sponsor IBM.

Olympic sponsor Goodman Fielder also faces a double-barrelled attack from
competitors keen to take on the sporting mantle. Bread brand TipTop, owned by
Australian Stock Exchange-listed George Weston, is a sponsor, as well as cereal
manufacturer Kellogg's, which competes with the Goodman Fielder-owned Uncle
Toby's.

Soft-drink maker Berri supplies the sport drink Isosport, which is battling for
share in that market segment with Coca-Cola's Powerade.

Berri also distributes Summit spring water as an AIS-endorsed product, which
again goes head-to-head with Coke's Mount Franklin spring water brand.

Also named as a principal sponsor is food group Nestle. Unilever is the official
Olympic sponsor.

In fact, the only Olympic sponsor that makes the AIS principal sponsor list is
Ansett.

Now, none of this could by any stretch of the imagination be designated as
ambush marketing.

But it is smart marketing to try and drum up a sporting link in an Olympic year.

Expect many more companies to try it.

mcguirem@matp.newsltd.com.au

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             152 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               September 15, 2000, Friday, 3 Early Tampa Edition

Tiger set to sign a $ 100M Nike deal

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 467 words



Fresh off his record-breaking summer of golf, Tiger Woods is on the verge of
signing a $ 100-million endorsement contract with Nike believed to be the
richest in sports, the Associated Press has learned.

Mark Steinberg, his agent at IMG, declined to discuss specifics of the deal on
Thursday, only to say it was an "outstanding contract."

"We are within days of a signature," he said.

"It compensates Tiger not just for what he's done with Nike, but what he has
done for golf and sports."

Woods' previous contract with Nike was said to be $ 40-million over five years.
He was used heavily in their advertisements and established his own line of
clothing and shoes.

Nike Golf president Bob Wood described the contract as "pretty creative."

"It's not often you get a chance to work with somebody who's the best in the
world at what they do," he said. "Working with and being associated with Tiger
Woods has created an incredible amount of positive energy about Nike Golf and
Nike."

While Wood also declined to discuss contract details, he did say the amount was
partly tied to sales.

Woods has represented Nike since turning professional in 1996. In just four
years, he has won all four major championships, becoming, at 24, the youngest
player to do so. He set the scoring record in each of them, and he has attracted
a record number of TV viewers just about every week.

With three tournaments still to play, his nine victories this year are the most
in one PGA Tour season since 1950, and he is on pace to shatter the all-time
season scoring average set by Byron Nelson in 1945.

In June, he gave Nike a huge lift when he switched to the Nike Tour Accuracy
ball. He went on to win the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach by 15 strokes, the largest
winning margin in the 140-year history of major championship golf.

Woods devotes a substantial amount of time to Nike, and the Beaverton, Ore.,
company has used him effectively in their TV ads.

PUGA IS AMATEUR CHAMP: Greg Puga, a caddie at an exclusive California country
club, became the youngest winner in the 20-year history of the U.S. Mid-Amateur
on Thursday with a 3-and-1 victory over a faltering Wayne Raath at Hot Springs,
Va.

Puga was 2-down after the front nine but caught the 25-year-old South African by
making a critical 10-foot par putt on the 10th, a birdie on the 11th and a par
putt on No. 12 when Raath drove into a lateral hazard.

FALDO, JAMES "CLEAR THE AIR': Nick Faldo and Mark James agreed to a truce in
their Ryder Cup feud that has lasted nearly four months.

"We've cleared the air, and I think it's the end of the matter," James said
after a clubhouse discussion with Faldo at the Lancome Trophy event, in which
both are playing.

"We agreed there are two sides to every argument, but we've cleared the air."


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; Los Angeles caddie Greg Puga
hits his ball out of a rough at the U.S. Mid-Amateur at Hot Springs, Va. He won
the event.

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                             154 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                             March 10, 2000, Friday

OVERSEAS SUPPLIERS TO US BRANDS THRIVE; TAIWAN MAKER OF NIKES OUTDOES CUSTOMER

BYLINE: BY JON E HILSENRATH

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 3

LENGTH: 43 words


Shifting to production of casual shoes has allowed Yeu Yuen Industrial
(Holdings) Ltd (Hong Kong), owned by Tsai family of Taiwan, to stay profitable
while its main customer, Nike Inc (US), has suffered amid decline in demand for
athletic shoes; graphs (M)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

GRAPHIC: Graph

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             156 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                           October 4, 2000, Wednesday

Nike ends contract

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 61 words


PHNOM PENH: US sportswear giant Nike has terminated its contract with a
Cambodian factory after finding it used child labor, a Nike official said
yesterday.

It was the second such action by a major purchaser in Cambodia's $1.3
billion-a-year garment export industry. Nike dropped June Textiles after it
found at least one under-aged girl had been employed.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             157 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 5, 2000

OLYMPIC ATHLETES ARE URGED TO SET FOOT IN NIKE'S ASIAN 'SWEATSHOPS'

BYLINE: FROM ROHAN SULLIVAN IN SYDNEY

LENGTH: 233 words


OLYMPIC athletes were yesterday urged to visit Nike factories in Indonesia which
have allegedly been exploiting workers.

Activists released a report on the sportswear giant which documents claims of
intimidation and harassment of workers - particularly women - in companies
contracted to make Nike shoes.

The Oxfam Australia-Community Aid Abroad report said workers were threatened
with violence if they tried to join unions. Union members were also allegedly
fired for small mistakes and women were intimidated into not applying for leave
by having to undergo humiliating medical examinations.

Jim Keady, a football coach who resigned from the US St John's University over
his refusal to wear Nike products, said athletes should experience the
conditions of workers in Indonesia. He is suing Nike over his "forced"
resignation.

He spent August in a slum in Indonesia trying to live on the wage of a Nike
worker - about 80p a day. "You can survive, but you cannot live on that," Keady
said. "It's a starvation wage."

Workers were "flabbergasted" when they discovered how much athletes were paid
for endorsements, he said. "They begged us to bring these athletes to their
homes to see how they are forced to survive," he said. Nike said it had
undertaken to raise wages and had improved conditions. "We uphold the Olympic
ideal of human dignity," a Nike spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                             158 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                            June 7, 2000, Wednesday

Nike must pay union

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 123 words


SPORTSWEAR giant Nike yesterday admitted it breached the Clothing Trades Award
and agreed to pay the textile workers' union $15,000 in penalties.

The company reached a settlement with the Textile Clothing and Footwear Union
after the union brought proceedings against it in the Federal Court.

In consent orders read to the court, Nike admitted breaching three sections of
the award and agreed to pay the union $5000 a breach.

The court heard that Nike failed to register with the Australian Industrial
Relations Commission as a contractor.

It also failed to supply a list of subcontractors and other workers, which
enables the union to check on workers' wages and conditions, for 12 months from
February 1998.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             160 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                             May 4, 2000, Thursday

Tiger risks Nike cash

BYLINE: CHRISTINE JACKMAN

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 273 words


NEW YORK:  Tiger Woods put a $US90 million ($150 million) contract into jeopardy
yesterday by choosing to join the ranks of striking minor actors instead of
shooting a Nike commercial.

Nike was due to shoot the latest ad in a popular series starring the golfing
prodigy when Woods announced he was supporting the Screen Actors Guild's
campaign to get better pay for commercials.

There is a strike going on and we're abiding by it, his agent Mark Steinberg
said.

Woods' sponsorship deal with Nike is being renegotiated at present, with
industry commentators predicting he could easily earn up to $US90 million over
five years.

The extraordinary popularity of his ads, particularly one in which he expertly
bounces a golf ball of a club head, ensures Nike will probably not complain too
loudly about Woods' no-show at the scheduled shoot at Islesworth Country Club,
his home course near Orlando, Florida.

But the company was clearly concerned the ad, which it had hoped to release on
June 15 to coincide with the start of the US Open, would not be finished in
time.

Nike spokesman Mike Kelly said it was unclear when

Woods would be available for

a new shoot.

"The last I heard it was to be rescheduled," Mr Kelly said.

"Tiger's schedule is pretty hectic so it's hard to say.

"It may be a couple of months, it may be a couple of weeks."

Woods' move ensured the strike, which involves 135,000 actors but so far has
attracted limited attention, was thrown into the headlines.

"We deeply appreciate the support of this international superstar," SAG
spokesman Greg Krizman said.

--CHRISTINE JACKMAN

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             162 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            August 29, 2000, Tuesday

Tiger tees up $122m contract

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 148 words


WORLD No.1 golfer Tiger Woods has signed a new five-year contract with Nike
worth a minimum of $122 million.

A report on the Web site Tourinsider.com said Woods agreed to the deal after
winning last week's US PGA Championship.

"Phil Knight, the co-founder of the Nike empire, is determined to build on the
instant success of the new Nike ball, which Woods used for the first time
competitively in Germany in May and has since won five times, including three
major titles," wrote Web golf writer Bill Blighton.

"Woods was reported to have been paid $122 million by Nike when he turned
professional in 1996.

"But an inside source said: 'There were all sorts of figures being thrown around
and it wasn't really in anybody's interests to deny them.

"This is a good deal for Tiger and a good deal for Nike -- they have already
proved to be a hugely successful team'."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             163 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                       May 12, 2000 Friday Final Edition

Nike to offer high-tech gear

SOURCE: The Spectator

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON;ORE.


BEAVERTON, Ore. -- Sneaker and sportswear marketer Nike Inc. is diversifying
into high-tech sports gear to offer devices for athletes like a digital audio
player and heart-rate monitoring devices.

The athletic-shoe maker has created a division called Nike Techlab after several
years of study.

"Keeping the athlete in mind, Techlab will pioneer products that fuse sports and
technology for the benefit of today's digital athlete," said Clare Hamill,
vice-president of Nike Equipment.

The first of five new products is a digital audio player that will be in retail
stores in July and was produced in collaboration with S3's Diamond Multimedia
division -- the makers of Rio Audio digital players.

Nike said four other products would be in stores for the Christmas holiday
season, including real-time speed-distance and heart-rate monitoring devices, a
digital compass and hand-held sport communication products.

Intel warns of defective parts

SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Intel Corp., the world's largest chipmaker, said Wednesday
it shipped nearly one million computer circuit boards that could contain a
defect that destroys important files. Shares fell 4 per cent on the news.

The Santa Clara-based company sells a variety of parts that go into a computer,
including the motherboard, the primary component on which the processors, main
memory and support circuitry rest.

Some motherboards shipped since November have a defective "memory translator
hub" that experiences problems in moving signals between a cheaper form of
random access memory called SDRAM and the 820 Intel processor, said spokesman
Michael Sullivan.

Electrical problems "can cause some systems to intermittently reset, reboot
and/or hang," Intel said in a statement, and "can under extreme conditions,
potentially cause data corruption." Intel said it would replace the affected
motherboards.

The motherboards were shipped to a variety of computer manufacturers, including
major customers such as Dell Computer Corp. and Compaq Computer Corp.

Firm expands to New England

SALEM, N.H. -- Cisco Systems Inc. plans a major expansion into New Hampshire
that could bring 2,500 new jobs into the northeastern U.S. state.

The Internet network equipment provider said it has agreed to buy about 45
hectares and a building in Salem near the Massachusetts border for a New England
equipment manufacturing Centre.

The move is part of Cisco's plans for expansion and substantial growth in New
England, and closely follows word that the company is opening a research centre
in Massachusetts.

"The tremendous demand for Internet technology, specifically the growth in
optical network solutions, has created the need for this most recent expansion
in manufacturing", said Carl Redfield, senior vice-president of manufacturing.

The new centre will be used to test and assemble products and distribute them
worldwide. The company said up to 2,500 jobs will be created within the next
five years.

Weak U.S. dollar cuts profit

TOKYO -- Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. says that its group operating profit
fell 18 per cent last year because of a weaker U.S. dollar and a worldwide fall
in prices.

The maker of National and Panasonic consumer electronics products reported
operating profit of $1.45 billion for the year ended March 31. That's down from
$1.77 billion last year.

Sales slid 4.5 per cent to $66.7 billion.

Japanese exporters' results remain tied to exchange rate fluctuations. Recently,
Sony Corp. said the dollar's decline against the yen was a major reason for the
31 per cent decline in its group operating profit for the year that ended March
31.

Matsushita said one dollar bought an average of 113 yen in the year that ended
March 31, less than the 128 yen in the previous year. A weaker U.S. dollar hurts
profits when companies exchange greenbacks earned overseas for yen.

More losses for Telesystem

TORONTO -- Telesystem International Wireless Inc. widened its losses in the
first quarter as the company spent heavily to expand its international cell
phone network.

The Montreal-based mobile phone operator reported it had a net loss of $113.9
million US in the period, compared with a loss of $81.6 million last year. The
per-share loss rose to $1.51 from $1.13. However, consolidated revenues
increased to $169.5 million from $128.3 million, and total cell phone
subscribers hit more than 2.5 million, almost double the customer base last
year.

-- Spectator wire services

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Brief

                    Copyright 2000 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                             164 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                         June 22, 2000, Thursday, FINAL

Nike targeted

BYLINE: Herald News Services

SECTION: Sports; D12

LENGTH: 102 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore.


The Nike corporate Web site was taken over by hackers who replaced the content
with a message about ''inequality'' of the global economy.

A Web page posted by a group calling itself ''s11'' appeared Wednesday when the
www. nike.com address was requested.

The page says that ''global justice is coming -- prepare now,'' and includes a
''call to action'' at the ''World Economic Forum 2000'' on Sept. 11-13 in
Melbourne, Australia.

Nike has faced repeated criticism by student and labour rights groups for years
over conditions at its factories overseas, especially in Asia and Latin America.


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             165 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                    November 9, 2000 Thursday FINAL EDITION

TIGER'S BALL GOES PUBLIC IN MARCH

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C09

LENGTH: 595 words


Times staff and wire reports

BEAVERTON, Ore. Nike announced it will begin selling the golf ball Tiger Woods
uses in competition next March.

The Nike Tour Accuracy TW golf ball, which the 24-year-old began playing in
June, will have a cover and core about 5 percent harder than the Tour Accuracy
TA ball, which debuted in May. Otherwise, the two golf balls will be the same,
Nike said.

Nike said in August that Woods, the world's top-ranked player, didn't use the
same golf ball company advertising claimed. The nonprofit group Public Remedies
Inc. sued in U.S. District Court in San Francisco alleging Nike was misleading
consumers in ads for the Tour Accuracy ball.

"We think there's going to be a lot of curiosity among golfers of all skill
levels to play the same golf ball Tiger Woods plays," said Bob Wood, president
of the Nike Golf division. "It'll work best with someone with a pretty high
swing speed or an angle of attack that puts a lot of spin on the ball."

PGA Tour qualifying

JACKSON, Miss. Second-round play was suspended due to rain in a Stage II
qualifier at Colonial Country Club. Kris Cox held a two-stroke lead after
shooting 64 the first day. Brentwood's Steve Woods shot a 72. The top 23 will
advance to the finals, set for Nov. 29-Dec. 4 at PGA West in La Quinta.

Senior PGA qualifying

RIO RICO, Ariz. Vallejo's Ron Parsons shot a 1-under 71 to move into a tie for
12th place in a regional qualifier at the Rio Rico Resort course. Parsons, a
former Oakley resident who has made it to the finals three years in a row,
trailed leader Rod Murry (70-142) by four shots. Pleasant Hill's Gary Vanier was
at 75-148, Walnut Creek's Sandy McCall was at 77-151, and Clayton's Bob Boldt
was at 81-160. The top 14 will advance to the finals, Nov. 28-Dec. 1 at Eagle
Pines GC in Orlando, Fla.

* CALIMESA Danville's Jack Berube shot a 91 Tuesday in the first round of a
Senior PGA qualifier at PGA of Southern California Golf Club. John Schroeder
held a four-shot lead over three players after shooting a 70. Second-round
results were not available. The top 13 will advance.

Elsewhere

PATTERSON Auburn's Shawn Kelly shot 5-under 67 to win the Northern California
Open by two shots over Pleasanton's Dean Vomacka (68-215) and Los Altos' Brad
Martin (68-215). Kelly began the tournament with a 78 but was 9 under the final
two rounds to finish at 3-under 213. Alameda's Dong Yi won the amateur division
title (71-217). He tied for seventh overall.

* OJAI Antioch's Bob Heaton and Campolindo High School graduate Randy Haag
earned two of four victories for the Northern California Golf Association, but
Southern California managed to rebound from a 12 1/2-11 1/2 deficit for a 24-24
tie in the Seaver Cup Matches at Ojai Valley Inn and Spa.

Heaton beat Redlands' Ted Lyford 2-1, and Haag beat Los Angeles' Greg Puga 2
1/2- 1/2. Danville's Jim McMurtrey lost to California State Senior champ Mike
Riley of San Diego 3-0. Although he lost, Puga (the reigning U.S. Mid-Amateur
champ) rolled in a 6-foot birdie putt on the final shot of the day to earn the
decisive half-point in the biannual event.

* PLEASANTON Despite shooting 79, Dana Ebster (148) maintained her four-shot
lead over Kim Qually Olds after the second round of the Players West Tour
Invitational at Castlewood Country Club. Local results: Jue Tanaka 81-161;
Tricia Olson 84-163; Stephanie Hayes 89-166.

* CARMEL Defending champion Lynn Cowan beat J.J. Mink 5 and 4 in the second
round of the California Women's Amateur Championship at The Golf Club at Quail
Lodge.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 Contra Costa Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             166 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                    September 15, 2000 Friday Final Edition

Tiger close to $100M Nike deal

SOURCE: The Edmonton Journal

SECTION: Sports; Pg. D6

LENGTH: 148 words

DATELINE: New York

Fresh off his record-breaking summer of golf, Tiger Woods is on the verge of
signing a $100-million US endorsement contract with Nike believed to be the
richest in sports, The Associated Press has learned.

Mark Steinberg, his agent at IMG, declined to discuss specifics of the

deal on Thursday, only to say it was an "outstanding contract."

"We are within days of a signature," he said.

"It compensates Tiger not just for what he's done with Nike, but what

he has done for golf and sports."

Woods' previous contract with Nike was said to be $40 million US over five
years. He was used heavily in their advertisements and established his own line
of clothing and shoes.

A source close to the negotiations, speaking on condition of anonymity,
described it as the "largest contract in sports marketing history," worth about
$100 million US over five years.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Sports; Brief

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             167 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                    September 5, 2000 Tuesday Final Edition

Nike 'still exploiting'

SOURCE: News Services

SECTION: News; World News; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 99 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY

SYDNEY -- Olympic athletes were urged yesterday to visit Nike factories in
neighbouring Indonesia that "exploit workers." A report by Community Aid
Abroad-Oxfam Australia said workers were threatened with violence if they tried
to join unions; union members were fired for small mistakes and women were
intimidated into not applying for leave by being required to face humiliating
medical examinations.

"Nike has been pushing the line that it has reformed its human-rights
practices," an Oxfam spokesman said. "The truth is that (there has been) only
very minor and grudging reforms.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Brief; News

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             168 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          October 18, 2000, Wednesday

PUT A SPRING IN YOUR STEP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 62 words


NIKE is launching high-tech trainers called Nike Shox that put a springs in your
step. On sale in the US next month, they are about pounds 100 a pair.

Nike Shox feature spring-like columns in the heels made from resilient foam,
similar to that used in the noses of Formula One racing cars.

The springs produce a "trampoline-style" effect, Nike claims.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited


                             169 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                         September 27, 2000, Wednesday

The Olympics Day 12;
Nike cashes in on Cathy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 97 words


IT only took 15 minutes for marketing executives to begin cashing in on Cathy
Freeman's Olympic gold medal win in the 400m on Monday night.

Within three hours of her win, 220 Nike billboards around Sydney had been
changed to reflect the gold medal performance.

"Cathy Freeman, official sponsor of joy to the Sydney 2000 Olympics," the new
posters declared across a photo of a triumphant Freeman who is married to US
Nike executive Sandy Boedecker.

New Nike television advertisements will go to air on Channel 7 tonight, as the
hype surrounding the victory continues.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             170 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                            June 21, 2000, Wednesday

Freeman 'used' in Nike ad

BYLINE: CLAIRE HARVEY

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 245 words


ABORIGINAL leaders have accused sportswear giant Nike of cashing in on the
reconciliation debate with an Olympic advertising campaign featuring sprinter
Cathy Freeman.

Aboriginal Development Council chairwoman Lowitja O'Donoghue and National Sorry
Day chairwoman Audrey Kinnear attacked Nike's latest "Sorry" television
advertisement, in which Olympians including marathon runner Steve Moneghetti
apologise for spending time away from their families at training.

She said Freeman had been "used" in the campaign.

"It's very distasteful and insensitive of Nike to use Cathy as an indigenous
person; I can see a lot of our people will be hurt by the fact that she's been
used this way," Ms Kinnear said.

"It makes me really upset. These ads trivialise the whole reconciliation process
...

"Nike is capitalising on our Sorry."

Ms O'Donoghue said she was offended by the advertisement, which first screened
on June 11, two weeks after thousands of Australians said sorry to the stolen
generations at Corroboree 2000.

"Of course it was a reference to our Sorry," she said. "It's far too much of a
coincidence."

In the advertisement, Freeman turns to the camera and mouths the words: "Can we
talk about this later?"

Nike Australia marketing director Brent Scrimshaw said there was no subtext.

"It is in no way our intention to use Cathy in that way or for Nike to gain any
commercial benefit from the reconciliation debate," Mr Scrimshaw said.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             171 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                            June 21, 2000, Wednesday

Freeman 'used' in Nike ad

BYLINE: CLAIRE HARVEY

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 245 words


ABORIGINAL leaders have accused sportswear giant Nike of cashing in on the
reconciliation debate with an Olympic advertising campaign featuring sprinter
Cathy Freeman.

Aboriginal Development Council chairwoman Lowitja O'Donoghue and National Sorry
Day chairwoman Audrey Kinnear attacked Nike's latest "Sorry" television
advertisement, in which Olympians including marathon runner Steve Moneghetti
apologise for spending time away from their families at training.

She said Freeman had been "used" in the campaign.

"It's very distasteful and insensitive of Nike to use Cathy as an indigenous
person; I can see a lot of our people will be hurt by the fact that she's been
used this way," Ms Kinnear said.

"It makes me really upset. These ads trivialise the whole reconciliation process
...

"Nike is capitalising on our Sorry."

Ms O'Donoghue said she was offended by the advertisement, which first screened
on June 11, two weeks after thousands of Australians said sorry to the stolen
generations at Corroboree 2000.

"Of course it was a reference to our Sorry," she said. "It's far too much of a
coincidence."

In the advertisement, Freeman turns to the camera and mouths the words: "Can we
talk about this later?"

Nike Australia marketing director Brent Scrimshaw said there was no subtext.

"It is in no way our intention to use Cathy in that way or for Nike to gain any
commercial benefit from the reconciliation debate," Mr Scrimshaw said.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             172 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 9, 2000, Wednesday

Nike drops Pounds 940m

BYLINE: Adam Jones

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 129 words


MORE than Pounds 940 million was wiped from the stock market value of Nike
yesterday morning when the sportswear giant said profits would be lower than
estimates (Adam Jones writes).

The shares lost 19 per cent even though the company said earnings per share are
likely to rise by at least 20 per cent in 2000. Profit growth in 2001 is
expected to be slower. American sportswear shops are having to close stores and
cut back on retail space, affecting orders for Nike shoes and clothes. The chain
Just For Feet, a big customer, has filed for bankruptcy protection.

Nike is also being punished by the strength of the dollar against the euro. The
company's shares were trading as high as $ 58.75 last October, but closed at $
36.69 in New York last night.


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited


                             173 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                       June 2, 2000 Friday Final Edition

Factory data on website

SOURCE: Associated Press

SECTION: Money; Pg. A37

LENGTH: 96 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore.

BEAVERTON, Ore. -- Nike posted audits of its North American factories on its
website yesterday as part of the athletic shoe and clothing maker's efforts to
show it is working to improve conditions and guard labour rights around the
world.

Calling the effort Transparency 101, the site lists information about 53
factories that PricewaterhouseCoopers audited in the past year, summarizing
problems auditors found in 14 categories.

The largest problem appeared to be health and safety standards in 24 U.S.
factories and eight Mexican factories under contract to Nike.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Business

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             175 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 18, 2000

New balls but Tiger finds bogey trouble

BYLINE: David Smith

SECTION: Pg. 88

LENGTH: 355 words


TIGER WOODS today added a new ball to his armoury and immediately walked into
trouble both on and off the golf course.

Woods used his defence of the £1.6 million Deutsche Bank-SAP Open TPC of Europe
Championship at Gut Kaden to play a Nike ball for the first time.

It was only in January that the world No 1 began a new five-year contract with
Titleist, reported to be worth £6m to use that company's clubs and balls.

Titleist officials were staying tight-lipped over Woods' unexpected switch but
it is thought the 24-year-old American had a clause in the new deal that enabled
him to terminate it at short notice.

However, Nike celebrations over a boost to their association with Woods - he is
playing here with Nike signature 'swooshes' on his cap, sweater, glove and shoes
- were cut short as he bogeyed his two opening holes.

That was hardly the sort of golf Nike might have expected from a player who is
shortly expected to sign a new agreement at least doubling value of the
five-year, £24m deal he accepted when he turned professional in 1996.

The business of selling golf balls to the public is a lucrative one and Nike
have entered the market with a strong promotional push that included signing up
Open champion Paul Lawrie to endorse their new product.

But Woods would be the biggest capture of them all. Bob Wood, president of Nike
Golf, said: "Golf is a business where it's tough on the equipment side to break
through. For him to play our product says a lot about it.

The thing about Tiger is he's completely about winning."

Alas, Woods looked anything but a winner on a chilly morning. His opening tee
shot at the par four 10th found clawing rough and his recovery scattered
spectators.

Then he could only advance the ball five yards out of even deeper rough, leaving
30 yards between him and the pin which he negotiated in two for a bogey five.

At the next hole he hit over the green and when his wedge at the pin fell short
Woods slammed the club into his bag in anger at the poor start which left him
five shots behind early pacesetter Michael Jonzon of Sweden.


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: NO PRIZES FOR GUESSING WHO'S BACKING TIGER

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             177 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Nike Shox aims to put the spring back in your step

                                October 2, 2000


HIGH-TECH SPORTS EQUIPMENT

Latest range of shoes incorporates high-density, durable foam used to cushion
Formula One race-car engines

THE highly-resistant foam used to cushion Formula One race-car engines is what
sporting giant Nike has placed in its new range of sports shoes.

Apart from controlling impact, Nike claims the shoes -called Nike Shox -will put
the spring back into your step.

The breakthrough, in the form of four columns at the heel of each shoe, placed
between two thermoplastic plates, is the result of more than 16 years of
research and testing.

Said Nike sports-research laboratory director Mario Lafortune: "Nike Shox is the
most tested piece of footwear technology to come out of the lab."

The columns are made of a type of high-density, durable foam.

Speaking to reporters in Tokyo, he added: "Just like the suspension system of a
car, the columns are the suspension system for the athlete.

"They make the difference between landing on concrete and landing on a small
trampoline."

But the company has not discarded its Nike Air technology either. The famous
cushioning system is in place in the sole of the shoe.

There are three types of shoes, for both men and woman -running, cross-training
and basketball.

The columns in the running and cross-training shoes collapse quickly to slow the
foot, then expand back to original height to propel the foot.

For basketball players, on the other hand, the columns turn inwards so that the
wearer has more stability.

Although the shoes are yet to be released to the mass market, observant viewers
may have already seen them on the feet of Olympic athletes like "Slam Dunk King"
Vince Carter of the United States basketball team.

But when does sporting gear cross the line from enhancing an athlete's
performance to giving him an unfair advantage?

Said Nike's Divisional Vice President and Global Brand Director of Running
Juliet Moran: "That's an interesting challenge. And I think the lines are
becoming a little more blurred."

"We're trying to create products which do not interfere with what your body is
trying to achieve, by eliminating injury, for example."

The shoes will be available here by the end of the year, and will cost about US$
150 (S$ 255).


SECTION: Tech & Science; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 379 words

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: It is the most tested footwear, says Nike of Nike Shox.

                Copyright 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


                             179 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            April 6, 2000, Thursday

TRIPPED SURGEON SUES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 73 words


A NEW YORK orthopeadic surgeon has sued Nike for pounds 7million, saying shoes
made by the sportswear giant tripped her and caused serious permanent injuries.

According to Dr Deborah A Fary-niarz's lawsuit, her shoelace hooked around the
back of the trainer..

The lawsuit alleged that Nike knew before she was injured that the Nike
Certitude Cross-trainers were dangerous but failed to fix them.

Nike would not comment.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited


                             180 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                             May 3, 2000, Wednesday

On your bike, says Nike founder

SOURCE: * AP

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 258 words


NIKE founder Phil Knight will make no further donations to his alma mater, the
University of Oregon, because of its membership in a student-driven labour
rights organisation that has criticised Nike.

"Nike will honour its contractual commitment. But for me ... there will be no
further donations of any kind to the University of Oregon. At this time, this is
not a situation that can be resolved," he said. "The bonds of trust, which
allowed me to give at a high level, have been shredded."

Mr Knight said he had given $US50 million ($83 million) to the university --
$US30 million for athletics and $US20 million for academics.

University president David Frohnmayer said he was disappointed.

"I still hope to speak with him in person and look forward to working with him
in the future," he said in a statement.

Labour practices at factories under contract to Nike around the globe have come
under criticism from several universities.

Knight said he was shocked to learn on April 14 that the university had joined
the Workers Rights Consortium. Nike supports another group, the Fair Labor
Association, in the fight against sweatshop labour.

At issue is who will monitor labour standards at the factories.

Businesses largely support the association, which allows them a greater say in
how monitoring is conducted and putting limits on the release of inspection
results. The association also gives businesses strong representation on its
board.

Student activists, however, support the independent consortium.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             181 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                             May 3, 2000, Wednesday

On your bike, says Nike founder

SOURCE: * AP

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 258 words


NIKE founder Phil Knight will make no further donations to his alma mater, the
University of Oregon, because of its membership in a student-driven labour
rights organisation that has criticised Nike.

"Nike will honour its contractual commitment. But for me ... there will be no
further donations of any kind to the University of Oregon. At this time, this is
not a situation that can be resolved," he said. "The bonds of trust, which
allowed me to give at a high level, have been shredded."

Mr Knight said he had given $US50 million ($83 million) to the university --
$US30 million for athletics and $US20 million for academics.

University president David Frohnmayer said he was disappointed.

"I still hope to speak with him in person and look forward to working with him
in the future," he said in a statement.

Labour practices at factories under contract to Nike around the globe have come
under criticism from several universities.

Knight said he was shocked to learn on April 14 that the university had joined
the Workers Rights Consortium. Nike supports another group, the Fair Labor
Association, in the fight against sweatshop labour.

At issue is who will monitor labour standards at the factories.

Businesses largely support the association, which allows them a greater say in
how monitoring is conducted and putting limits on the release of inspection
results. The association also gives businesses strong representation on its
board.

Student activists, however, support the independent consortium.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             182 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                             May 11, 2000, Thursday

THE TICKER NIKE IN HIGH-TECH GEAR

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 403 words

Sneaker and sportswear marketer Nike is diversifying into high-tech sports gear
after several years of study and has has created a division called Nike Techlab.

The first of five new products to be offered is a digital audio player that will
be in stores in July and was produced in collaboration with S3's Diamond
Multimedia division - the makers of Rio Audio digital players.

Nike said four other products would be in stores for the Christmas holiday
season, including real-time speed-distance and heart-rate monitoring devices, a
digital compass and handheld sport communication products. 3M for misleading
clients  Dreyfus, the mutual fund unit of Mellon Financial, agreed to pay almost
$3 million to settle charges by the Securities and Exchange Commission and New
York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer that the firm misled investors about the
performance of one of its mutual funds.

The SEC accused Dreyfus of inflating the first-year returns of its Aggressive
Growth Fund and failing to properly oversee trades by the fund's former manager,
Michael Schonberg.

Dreyfus will pay $950,000 to the SEC and will contribute $1.6 million toward
investor education programs at the State University of New York. The firm also
will pay $400,000 to cover the cost of New York's investigation. Schonberg will
pay the SEC $50,000 and agreed to a nine-month suspension that bars him from
working for any investment adviser. Time for some changes  Henry Muller, Time
Inc.'s editorial director, will become an editor at large beginning Oct. 1. In
that capacity, Muller will write for various Time Inc. magazines, according to
Time Inc. editor in chief Norman Pearlstine.

Also, Isolde Motley, most recently managing editor of Life magazine, will become
corporate editor of Time Inc. and will work directly with Pearlstine on a number
of editorial projects.  Crazy Eddie retribution  Shareholders in the failed
Crazy Eddie electronics chain should get $72.7 million from three of the
company's principals who engaged in stock fraud, Federal Judge Harold Ackerman
has ruled.

Investors lost at least $145.9 million when Crazy Eddie collapsed in 1987 in one
of the nation's largest swindles.

If collected, the $72.7 million would be in addition to $120 million they
already have received in compensation, most of it from bank accounts that
founder Eddie Antar kept around the globe.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.


                             184 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 7, 2000

Toxins scare over German Nike kit

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 195 words


SPORTS goods manufacturer Nike moved to reassure parents today after reports
that some of its football shirts were laced with a toxic chemical used in
anti-barnacle paint on ships.

Nike, which makes the Arsenal shirt worn by many youngsters in London, said it
was carrying out its own tests and there was no need for panic. Fears were
raised over the safety of the Nike-made shirts of German side Borussia Dortmund
after a German TV show commissioned tests on the kit and reported its findings
earlier this week.

The show claims the shirts contain a chemical used on the bottom of sea vessels
but also used to kill bacteria and quell the stench of excessive sweating.

British and Dutch tests have shown that Tributyltin or TBT can cause mutations
in marine snails and the World Wildlife Fund is calling for its global ban.

At high levels in humans, it is believed to cause neurological probems, damage
the immune system and harm the liver, said Juergen Kundke, a scientist with a
German institute for consumer health.

But a Nike spokesman said initial testing failed to detect any TBT in the
shirts, although further tests were necessary.


LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             185 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 28, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NIKE PULLS OUT OF DEAL WITH MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY

BYLINE: From the Associated Press, Bloomberg News and Reuters

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 97 words


Nike Inc. said Thursday that it has terminated negotiations on the renewal of a
six-year, multimillion-dollar licensing agreement with the University of
Michigan. University President Lee Bollinger accused the company of retaliating
against Michigan for its involvement with the Worker Rights Consortium, a
student-driven coalition of schools demanding that Nike provide better labor
conditions for overseas workers. Last week, Nike Chairman Phil Knight withdrew
plans to donate $30 million to his alma mater, the University of Oregon, after
that school joined the consortium.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Business News

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             186 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                                October 8, 2000

Nike organise tourney to attract more youths

BYLINE: By Glen Peters

SECTION: Sport; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 320 words


BASKETBALL enthusiasts will have a chance to pit their skills in the Nike
three-on-three tournament at Plaza Alam Sentral in Shah Alam every
Saturday from Oct 14-Nov 11.

The tournament will be contested in six categories for boys' - Under-18,
Under-15, Under-12 - and the Under-16 and Open for the non-Chinese.

"We are organising this event to get more youths to take up the sport.
Also, Nike has adopted' the court in Shah Alam and upgraded it, and will
continue to maintain it so that the youths will have a proper safe place
to play," said Nike sports marketing executive, Ng Swee Fong in Kuala
Lumpur yesterday.

"The court in Shah Alam is the fifth court we have committed to maintain
and changed it to a Play Zone'. The others are in Petaling Jaya, Tawau,
Kuching and Johor Bahru."

Nike aims to promote the sport to all other races, besides the Chinese
community, who are most dominant in the sport in Malaysia.

"With that in mind, the tournament will be held in Shah Alam because
there are a lot of non-Chinese in that area," said Rock Sports
representative, Khoo Chen Nan in Kuala Lumpur yesterday.

Rock Sports, along with Slam Dunk are also co-organisers of the
tournament.
The entry fees for each team consisting four players are RM80. Each player
will receive a Nike T-shirt, drinks, a free TM Net internet account and a
internet training voucher.

All those competing will also have the option of buying Nike canvas
basketball shoes at a cheaper rate of RM20, compared to the usual RM99.90
retail price.

Those interested can get further information or register online at
www.dynamic.com.my. or call Yap Swee Sim at 019-2792990 or Chin Chee Wai
at 012-2839388.

Closing date is on Oct 10 and entries must be sent to either Slam Dunk
at G-23, Bukit Raja Shopping Centre Klang (tel: 03-33445782) or Rock
Sports at Plaza Alam Sentral, Shah Alam (tel: 03-55132076).


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Basketball.

            Copyright 2000 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                             187 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      September 3, 2000, Sunday, Edition 1

OLYMPIC NOTEBOOK OLDEST OLYMPIAN OPENS VILLAGE

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 489 words


Edie Payne, at 93 Australia's oldest surviving Olympian,
 officially opened the athletes' village at the main Sydney Games
 site yesterday as the first 2,000 competitors took up residence.

 Payne, who competed at the 1928 Amsterdam Games as a sprinter, broke down and
cried in her wheelchair after welcoming the athletes and dignitaries.

The 2,000 athletes who arrived yesterday will be joined by about 8,000 more over
the next 10 days prior to the opening ceremonies on Sept. 15.

Some 5,000 officials from 199 countries and the territory of East Timor will
also be in residence. They will be looked after by a staff of 7,000.

The village, which cost $350 million (U.S.), became the fifth-largest city in
New South Wales when it opened. It has 1,000 houses and apartments in the same
area as 13 venues that will stage 17 sports. Services available to athletes
include a supermarket, post office, bank, florist, travel agency, medical centre
and disco.

The village will become the Sydney suburb of Newington after the Games.

WALKER TESTS POSITIVE: A Chinese race walker has been kicked off the Olympic
team after
 failing a drug test.

 Liu Yunfeng, who was China's top prospect in the men's 20-kilometre walk,
tested positive July 13, the official China Daily reported yesterday.

Liu's fate hinges on the result of tests on a second sample, the newspaper said.
It did not name the drug found in Liu's first sample and did not say when the
second result was expected.

NIKE UNDER FIRE: Sportswear giant Nike will be the target of protests in the
days
 leading up to the Games.

 The anti-Nike group NikeWatch said it will release a report tomorrow detailing
workplace practices at Nike's Indonesian factories. The group says workers are
earning as little as 40 cents an hour to make Nike products.

NikeWatch is planning events in Sydney, Melbourne, Perth and Adelaide and has
planned a mock Olympic opening ceremony to publicize claims about Nike's poor
workplace ethics.

Nike rejected the claim.

"They have the right issue, it's an honourable issue," Vada Manager, Nike's head
of global issues, said yesterday. "Targeting Nike, though, is the wrong
company."

SWOOPES JOINS HOOPS TEAM: Fresh off helping the Houston Comets win their fourth
straight
 WNBA title, Sheryl Swoopes joined the U.S. Olympic women's
 basketball team for its game with Brazil and led the U.S. to a
 75-53 victory yesterday in a key Games tuneup.

 Swoopes, the WNBA's regular-season MVP, had 18 points and six rebounds. Lisa
Leslie added 15 points, and Yolanda Griffith 13 as the United States made amends
for one of only two losses in the past year.

Brazil, runner-up to the U.S. at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, surprised the
Americans 64-55 at home in March. The U.S. squad's only other defeat in 35 games
dating to last September was to Tennessee.

WITH FILES FROM STAR WIRE SERVICES



LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             190 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                       May 19, 2000 Friday Final Edition

Woods using Nike's balls

SOURCE: The Edmonton Journal

SECTION: Sports; Pg. D6

LENGTH: 97 words

DATELINE: Alveslohe, Germany

For the first time in 98 tournaments, Tiger Woods played golf on Thursday with a
swoosh instead of a Titleist.

In the latest and loudest shot fired in the golf ball wars, Woods experimented
with a Nike Golf ball in the first round of the Deutsche Bank Open.

"If he decides to switch, it's an earthquake," said Bob Wood, president of Nike
Golf.

After a 2-under 70 left him three strokes out of the first-round lead, Woods
said he has been experimenting with a version of the Nike Tour Accuracy the past
few months while practicing at his home course outside Orlando.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Sports; Brief

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             193 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                       September 15, 2000, Friday, FINAL

Woods, Nike near $100-million deal

BYLINE: Herald News Services

SECTION: Sports; C6

LENGTH: 94 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Fresh off his record-breaking summer of golf, Tiger Woods is on the verge of
signing a $100-million US endorsement contract with Nike believed to be the
richest in sports, The Associated Press has learned.

Mark Steinberg, his agent at IMG, declined to discuss specifics of the deal
Thursday, only to say it was an ''outstanding contract.''

''It compensates Tiger not just for what he's done with Nike, but what he has
done for golf and sports,'' he said.

Woods' previous contract with Nike was said to be $40 million US over five
years.


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             195 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          September 27, 2000 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Star sprinters' guards save beset Nike shop

BYLINE: Damien Murphy

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 254 words


The bodyguards had been guarding US athletes Carl Lewis and Marion Jones at a
Redfern youth club when they got the call: Sydney's Nike shop was under attack.

About 100 demonstrators had gathered outside the Icon sports shop in George
Street yesterday for the city's first protest.

Fresh from Melbourne's S-11 protest, the Campaign Against Corporate Tyranny
United in Struggle (CACTUS) was railing against the International Monetary Fund
and the World Bank summit in Prague as the bodyguards took up positions outside
the store's locked doors.

The proprietors had put up a notice saying "this store is independently owned
and operated" but they forgot to take down the "authorised Nike dealer" sign.

On the megaphone, Socialist Worker editor Ms Alison Stewart harangued passersby
and exhorted the protesters to march and march they did: down George Street to
the Westpac Bank, up Martin Place to Commonwealth Bank, into the Domain to
regroup and then gather in Macquarie Street outside Parliament baying "shame
Carr shame".

Police let the march roll on, holding up commuter traffic until protesters
peeled off down Phillip Street to gather outside the prime ministerial offices.

A charge through the open plate glass doors caught police by surprise and a
brief brawl followed as protesters were repulsed by extra officers.

Inspector Dave Darcy, who was commanding the police, said: "There has been a
tradition of non-violent protests in Sydney but a few blow-ins have changed all
that. Pushing cops into plate glass windows is not on."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             196 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 6, 2000, Wednesday

FOOTBALL: JUST DO IT, FERGIE - NIKE WANT ALEX TO JOIN UP WITH THEIR DREAM TEAM

BYLINE: Alan Nixon

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 372 words


SIR ALEX FERGUSON is being head-hunted by sportswear giants Nike to become their
football ambassador - on a massive contract.

Talks between the Manchester United boss and the American-based company are at
an advanced stage and Ferguson may sign a deal shortly.

Ferguson has been targeted by the firm as the ideal man to front their push for
top football contracts with clubs and players worldwide.

He revealed he is considering one highly- lucrative job offer to United
shareholders after being pursued by dozens of top companies.

He said: "I've got a lot of offers already. One of them is really staggering. It
would be a four-year contract for a huge amount of money and would involve a lot
of travelling."

The salary being discussed is around pounds 1million-a-year on a four-year
contract with VIP expenses, and the possibilities of bonuses are endless.

And Nike may even be willing to offer Ferguson the job on a 'part-time' basis,
leaving him to keep other interests in football and horse racing. However, it
would too demanding for Ferguson to work at United in a significant capacity,
and would be the end of that association if Nike are successful.

Ferguson is still intent on retiring from Old Trafford when his present contract
runs out in two years.

Despite United's new chief Peter Kenyon claiming that he would like him to stay,
talks with Nike are progressing well.

Ferguson would be Nike's football equivalent of Tiger Woods, the world's finest
golfer who is synonymous with their products.

Ironically, United are with major rivals Umbro, a deal that Nike have coveted
for years only to fall foul of a 'special relationship' between club and
company.

But now the fight is between United and Nike for Ferguson's services.

As well as revealing aspects about his own future, Ferguson revealed how the
club plan to tempt the game's best players to United by offering shares in the
world's richest club.

They plan to introduce a share saver scheme in an effort to counter the
incredible wages available in Italy and Spain.

Instead of paying players pounds 100,000-a-week they would be give the
opportunity to buy shares in the world's richest club at a special rate.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FERGUSON is laughing all the way to the bank

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             197 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           December 12, 2000, Tuesday

Ryan's wrong shoe shuffle - SYDNEY CONFIDENTIAL

BYLINE: PETER HOLDER and JO CASAMENTO

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 91 words


THE shoe was on the other foot when Neighbours star Ryan Toadie Moloney attended
the launch of Nike's peculiar new shoes, the Nike Shox, in Melbourne last week.

The Nike folk offered $100 gift vouchers through fitness challenges -- doing
one-armed push-ups, balancing on gym balls, stuff like that.

Moloney had to catch a medicine ball while balancing on a larger gym ball.

Naturally, he succeeded and collected his $100.

But how excited were the Nike folk when he strode forward to collect his prize
in a pair of Reeboks?

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             198 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                             May 11, 2000, Thursday

Protest at Nike

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 96 words


CITY shoppers got more than they bargained for yesterday when students protested
outside Melbourne's Nike Superstore condemning the clothing giant's employment
practices.

The National Union of Students said Nike employed mostly migrant women who
worked in their own homes for up to 18 hours a day, earning as little as a
dollar an hour producing sportswear.

About 20 students, clad in calico bags, danced in front of shoppers.

A Nike spokeswoman said the company had a policy of not employing outworkers and
ensuring sub-contractors did not employ outworkers.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             199 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                             June 26, 2000, Monday

HACKERS STRIKE AT NIKE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 125 words


SOPHISTICATED computer hackers who hijacked the Nike corporate Web site last
week to promote the disruption of an economic forum in Melbourne have warned
they will strike again.

The hackers commandeered www.nike.com and re directed hundreds of thousands of
visitors to a Web site run by the Melbourne activist group S11 Alliance,
www.s11.org, which is organising protests and blockades at the World Economic
Forum Asia Pacific Economic Summit, which runs from September 11 to 13.

The anti-globalisation activist group, based at Melbourne's RMIT, has denied
responsibility for the takeover but its Web master has been warned by the
hackers that they will act again.

The FBI has been asked to investigate the hacking of the Nike site.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             200 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           October 4, 2000, Wednesday

Nike drops sweatshop

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 117 words


PHNOM PENH: US sportswear giant Nike has terminated its contract with a
Cambodian factory after finding it used child labour, a company official said.

It was the second such action by a major purchaser in Cambodia's $1.3 billion a
year garment export industry.

This has quickly become the impoverished country's top exporter, but has faced
industrial action and accusations of running sweatshops.

Nike decided to drop Phnom Penh factory June Textiles after it found that at
least one under-aged girl was employed at the factory, Nike public affairs
officer Yvonne Iwaniuk said.

"We just don't tolerate child labour," Ms Iwaniuk said. "What we're trying to do
is set a standard."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             201 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                            December 8, 2000, Friday

The foot's in  the other shoe

BYLINE: BOB HART

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 103 words


AT Wednesday night's launch of Nike's peculiar new shoes, the Nike Shox, soapie
star Ryan Moloney played a starring role.

The Nike folk offered $100 gift vouchers through fitness challenges.

They invited those in attendance to perform one-armed push-ups, balance on gym
balls, stuff like that.

Moloney, who plays Toadie in Neighbours, was required to catch a medicine ball
while balancing on a larger gym ball. Naturally, he succeeded and collected his
$100.

But how excited were the Nike folk when he strode forward to be snapped
collecting his prize -- proudly wearing a pair of Reeboks?

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             202 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                    August 23, 2000 Wednesday Final Edition

Tiger doesn't use the ball he plugs

SOURCE: The Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. E03

LENGTH: 144 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Tiger Woods endorses Nike Tour Accuracy golf balls in TV and magazine ads. But
he really plays with custom-made balls unavailable to everyday duffers, Nike
acknowledged yesterday after being sued in federal court.

Nike Inc. said the balls used by Woods for his monster swings that produce
300-plus-yard drives have a slightly harder inner and outer core than the balls
sold to the public.

"Those two elements are slightly firmer than the marketed ball," said Mike
Kelly, marketing director for Nike Golf.

Kelly said it's common practice in the golfing world to sell the public
different products than what the pros use.

"It's an industry practice to make minor specification changes to golf products:
irons, putters and golf balls for tour players," Kelly said.

But other leading names in golf say their customers get exactly what their pros
endorse.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 2000 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                             204 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                            July 19, 2000, Wednesday

Green and gold version of Team Nike

BYLINE: NICOLE JEFFERY

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 306 words


THEY are exclusive, but will they be distinctive?

Nike, the white knight that rescued the Australian team when it lost its uniform
sponsor Reebok in December, launched the Olympic competition uniforms in Sydney
yesterday, just seven months after it assumed the sponsorship.

But the US sports equipment giant, which will dress 21 other national teams,
including the Americans, admitted our athletes would be almost as identifiably
Team Nike as Team Australia.

While each national team will have its own colours, many of the design features
will be the same across all Nike uniforms.

Nike Olympic creative director Ken Black said the "waterfall" patterning on the
Australian uniforms was an exclusive design (reminiscent of an Aboriginal dot
painting). However there was similar patterning on other national uniforms on
display at the launch.

Mr Black said the company's late entry as the uniform supplier, after Reebok
walked out believing its exclusivity had been compromised, had limited Nike's
ingenuity.

Nike was also under strict instructions from the Australian Olympic Committee,
whose research indicated that the athletes and public wanted green and gold.
Period.

The athletes who modelled the new competition and casual uniforms yesterday were
complimentary about the feel and fit of the garments.

"They are very comfortable, nice and lightweight and they look good,"
basketballer Shane Heal said.

"I think it's great, terrific. The green and gold really stands out," 1500m
runner Marg Crowley said.

Australia's Paralympic team will wear the same uniform as the Olympic team for
the first time in Sydney, a move applauded by wheelchair basketballer Troy
Sachs.

The only radical part of the competition range is Nike's space-age "Swift"
athletic bodysuit, which was launched in the US last month.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             205 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                            July 19, 2000, Wednesday

Green and gold version of Team Nike

BYLINE: NICOLE JEFFERY

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 306 words


THEY are exclusive, but will they be distinctive?

Nike, the white knight that rescued the Australian team when it lost its uniform
sponsor Reebok in December, launched the Olympic competition uniforms in Sydney
yesterday, just seven months after it assumed the sponsorship.

But the US sports equipment giant, which will dress 21 other national teams,
including the Americans, admitted our athletes would be almost as identifiably
Team Nike as Team Australia.

While each national team will have its own colours, many of the design features
will be the same across all Nike uniforms.

Nike Olympic creative director Ken Black said the "waterfall" patterning on the
Australian uniforms was an exclusive design (reminiscent of an Aboriginal dot
painting). However there was similar patterning on other national uniforms on
display at the launch.

Mr Black said the company's late entry as the uniform supplier, after Reebok
walked out believing its exclusivity had been compromised, had limited Nike's
ingenuity.

Nike was also under strict instructions from the Australian Olympic Committee,
whose research indicated that the athletes and public wanted green and gold.
Period.

The athletes who modelled the new competition and casual uniforms yesterday were
complimentary about the feel and fit of the garments.

"They are very comfortable, nice and lightweight and they look good,"
basketballer Shane Heal said.

"I think it's great, terrific. The green and gold really stands out," 1500m
runner Marg Crowley said.

Australia's Paralympic team will wear the same uniform as the Olympic team for
the first time in Sydney, a move applauded by wheelchair basketballer Troy
Sachs.

The only radical part of the competition range is Nike's space-age "Swift"
athletic bodysuit, which was launched in the US last month.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             206 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                           September 5, 2000, Tuesday

Nike put on notice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 113 words


OLYMPIC athletes were urged yesterday to rethink their sponsorship ties with
sportswear giant Nike amid claims it was breaching core labour standards.

The company, which is promoted by elite athletes such as Cathy Freeman, has been
accused by human rights group Community Aid Abroad-Oxfam of exploiting workers
in Indonesian factories sub-contracted by Nike.

In a report released in the NSW Parliament yesterday, the organisation claimed
the company was paying workers $A2 a day and threatening those involved in union
activities.

Anti-Nike group NikeWatch said it would be raising the plight of workers in a
national campaign to be conducted during the Olympics.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             207 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             April 7, 2000, Friday

SURGEON SUES OVER SHOES

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 125 words


NEW YORK: A New York orthopaedic surgeon has sued Nike for pounds 7 million,
saying shoes made by the sportswear giant tripped her.

Dr Deborah A Faryniarz claims she sustained serious permanent injuries when she
fell while jogging.

According to the lawsuit, her shoelace hooked around the back of the training
shoe, sending her sprawling.

Lawyer Mr James P Kreindler said the fall severely injured the doctor's right
wrist. She was also pregnant with her first child at the time.

The lawsuit alleged that Nike knew before Dr Faryniarz was injured that the Nike
Certitude Cross trainers were dangerous but failed to fix them.

Ms Cheryl McCants, a spokeswoman for Nike, said the company was not ready to
comment on the lawsuit.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                             209 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Denver Post

                        May 25, 2000 Thursday 2D EDITION

Despite some student protests, CU wants new Nike deal

BYLINE: By Tom Kensler, Denver Post Sports Writer,

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D-08

LENGTH: 591 words


COLORADO SPRINGS - Although the University of Colorado's deal  with Nike does
not expire until June 2001, athletic director Dick  Tharp said the school wants
a contract extension in place before  the start of the football season.

'I don't see that as a problem,' Tharp said during the Big 12  Conference spring
meetings at The Broadmoor. 'I think the  University of Colorado and Nike have
been good partners.'

CU's six-year agreement with Nike ends in late June of next  year. The deal
provides a minimum of $ 500,000 annually to the  school plus $ 600,000 in
equipment, uniforms, compensation to  coaches, funding of summer camps and
performance bonuses.

Some CU students have staged protests against the school's  involvement with
Nike, attacking the reported poor treatment of  factory workers overseas by the
shoe company. Tharp said Nike is a  progressive company that always has been
ahead of its competition  with regard to socio-economic and human rights issues.
He said  current negotiations with Nike involve business issues, not 'sweat
shop' issues.

Earlier this spring, Nike terminated its negotiations with the  University of
Michigan, allowing a six-year, $ 6 million contract  to expire Aug. 31. Michigan
wanted the shoe company to comply with  the school's Labor Standards and Human
Rights Policy, which  features a statement of principles for a licensee code of
conduct.  The code requires disclosure of licensee manufacturing sites,
disclosure of licensee manufacturing sites wages, women's rights  and methods of
ensuring compliance.

Tharp speculated a bigger factor in the breakdown of  negotiations between
Michigan and Nike was that the school may  have asked for too much money. Some
other shoe companies have  declined to renew contracts with colleges. Less
competition gives  Nike more leverage.

Preseason All-Americans

Four Big 12 players have been named to Playboy Magazine's  preseason football
team: Nebraska's Carlos Polk (6-foot-2, 250  pounds), a senior middle
linebacker; Texas' Leonard Davis (6-6,  355), a senior offensive tackle; Kansas
State's David Allen (5-9,  195), a senior kick-returner, and Missouri's Justin
Smith (6-5,  256), a junior defensive end.

Defending Bob Knight

Baylor basketball coach Dave Bliss learned under Indiana coach  Bob Knight at
Army (1967-69) and Indiana (1971-75). Bliss is  relieved that his embattled
mentor did not lose his job over  claims by former Hoosiers player Neil Reed
that he was choked by  Knight during a 1997 practice.

After a university investigation, Knight was suspended for  three games and
fined $ 30,000.

'I don't think even he condones some of the things that go on,  and I'm just
glad it didn't end there,' Bliss said. 'I thought it  took (IU president) Myles
Brand tremendous courage.

'His school president gave him a reprieve at a time when maybe  people were
calling for his scalp. He deserved that because he's  been great for college
basketball. He's had a dramatic effect on  young coaches who can take and glean
the good out of how he  coaches, the technique and honor and work ethic all
those things.'

Bliss spoke by phone with Knight about three weeks ago. Bliss  said Knight can
discipline himself enough to function under the  'zero tolerance' policy.

'I'll tell you what, Bob Knight can do anything Bob Knight  wants to do,' Bliss
said. 'He was held accountable for some things  that happened 15 or 20 years
ago.'

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2000 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             210 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 12, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Viewers sent to the Net for endings of Nike ads

BYLINE: Michael McCarthy

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 396 words


Starting this weekend, Nike invites TV viewers to go to the Internet
and pick endings for "cliffhanger" commercials.

The hybrid spots that star sprinter Marion Jones, slugger Mark
McGwire and snowboarder Rob Kingwill will push the Air Cross Trainer
II shoe going on sale this month. The $ 15 million to $ 20 million
campaign runs six weeks.


Created by Nike ad agency Wieden & Kennedy, the three spots
are shot through the viewer's eyes, putting watchers in the middle
of the action.

The first spot shows an in-your-face Jones challenging the viewer:
"You want to race? You don't have a chance."

As Jones dashes away, the viewer chases her pell-mell through
streets, alleys and kitchens of Santa Monica, Calif. The pursuit
culminates at a beach promenade where the viewer slams into a
man juggling chain saws, sending them flying into the air. As
the saws fall back toward the camera, the screen freezes.

"Continued at whatever.nike.com," the ending says.

Viewers intrigued enough to drop the remote and grab a mouse can
choose seven endings at whatever.nike.com.

"We're trying to take a 30-second experience and turn it into
a 15- to 20-minute experience," says Wieden & Kennedy creative
director Hal Curtis.

Nike partnered with Apple, Exodus and Akamai on video applications
needed for the site that goes online Saturday. At the site, Web
surfers also can access digitized versions of the spots, as well
as buy the shoe.

While Web surfers might appreciate Nike's convergence of media,
some TV networks are a "little threatened" by the idea because
it urges viewers to turn from their TV to their PC, says Steve
Sandoz, Wieden & Kennedy's interactive creative director.
"This is a hint of what's coming in the future."

If the ads prove popular, Nike may air them later with consumers'
favorite endings attached, says Mike Wilskey, Nike vice president
of U.S. marketing.

The "whatever" refers to Nike's belief that cross training has
expanded into "whatever" sport you want, he adds.

Currently, 20 million athletes cross train in the USA, and they
spend $ 2.3 billion annually on footwear, the NPD Consumer Panel
Study says.

The Jones spot will air during high-profile programming, such
as NFL playoff games. Nike also will run online banner ads to
draw consumer attention to the "whatever" site.



LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color; Get set, go: Starting Saturday, Nike's Web site,
whatever.nike.com, will offer seven endings to its race with sprinter Marion
Jones.

                      Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.


                             211 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                      April 17, 2000 Monday Final Edition

Bo files lawsuit saying Nike doesn't own Diddley

SOURCE: The Province

SECTION: Take A Break; Pg. B13

LENGTH: 74 words

Nike has hit a sour note with guitar legend Bo Diddley, 71, who is suing the
clothing and athletic shoe company because, he says, last year it marketed
nearly 28,000 T-shirts with his name, face and the slogan, "You Don't Know
Diddley."

In a suit filed in Manhattan Federal Court, Diddley (real name Ellas McDaniel)
says he did have an agreement with Nike but that was in 1989 and it was only set
to last two years.

No comment from Nike.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Business; Sports

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             213 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 24, 2000

Nike feels the pinch in court for 'tweaking' Tiger's balls

BYLINE: David Davies in Akron

SECTION: Guardian Sport Pages, Pg. 36

LENGTH: 582 words


Tiger Woods has gained his extraordinary success this year using a ball made
specifically for him and not available to the public. Nike has been sued because
of it.

The company has been taken to court in San Francisco, where it is alleged that
providing that ball is "an unfair business practice" because Woods endorses one
ball but plays another.

A non-profit-making organisation called Public Remedies Inc contends that Nike
should return "their ill-gotten gains" to the public because "Woods does not
play the Precision Tour Accuracy golf ball" that is advertised on Nike's website
as being "the ball Tiger used to tame Pebble Beach". Woods won the US Open at
Pebble Beach by 15 shots.

He also used the special ball to win the other two majors he took this season,
the Open Championship at St Andrews and the US PGA last week at Valhalla.

Public Remedies alleges that the Woods ball has "different composition and
performance characterisitics specially made for him and not available to the
general public". This is partly conceded by Nike, whose marketing director Mike
Kelly said the ball used by Woods "has a slightly firmer inner and outer core
than the marketed ball".

But Kelly claimed: "It is industry practice to make minor specification changes
to golf products for Tour players."

This is denied by other market leaders. Titleist, whose ball Woods used until
halfway through this season, said: "Our contracted players use the products they
advertise. And, if a product is tweaked for a particular player, the customer
could order it in that form. We don't make claims that cannot be substantiated."

Callaway said: "If one of our professionals uses a certain club, that identical
club is available retail."

Regardless of legal conclusions, the moral ramifications of one ball for the
pros and another for the amateurs are far-reaching. One of the joys of golf is
that everyone can play the same course with the same clubs and the same ball,
then measure comparative performance.

As it happens the ball being used by Woods would probably feel like a pebble if
hit by ordinary mortals, for it needs the enormous swing speed created by his
whiplash action through the hitting area to compress the ball sufficiently to
send it the 330-350 yards that the American achieves.

But the principle remains that the ball should be available to anyone who wants
it, and there is also the matter of Woods endorsing a ball he does not use.

Yesterday Woods played down the affair before the NEC Invitational World
Championship here in Ohio: "There are a lot of players with balls that are not
on the market, a lot of shafts that are not on the market, and the club heads we
use are tinkered around with - the weight of them, the face structure of them,
the way they are shaped. These are things the public cannot have access to;
that's just the way it is."

Tinkering is one thing, making a ball specifically for one player another, and
the game's authorities need to monitor the development carefully.

Coincidentally Woods celebrates his fourth anniversary as a golf professional
this week. In that time he has won Dollars 20,938,114 (pounds 14m) from winning
28 of 104 events in which he has played.

But perhaps the most mind-boggling statistic is that he has won more money in
the past two seasons, with the exception of Davis Love III, than anyone else in
a career on Tour - and mostly with a Titleist ball available to all and sundry.


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             214 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

Tiger: it's not the ball

BYLINE: PAT HICKEY

SECTION: Sports; C1 / BREAK

LENGTH: 873 words


Is it the ball, or is Tiger Woods the greatest golfer in history?

The evidence is mounting with each week that Tiger is in a class by himself.  At
24, he has become one of those figures who can be readily identified by a single
name.

Woods doesn't simply win golf tournaments he dominates them. In two of his last
three major wins, he set records for low scores and margins of victory. The only
suspense at the NEC Invitational this weekend was whether Tiger would be able to
finish his final round before play was called because of darkness.

But for some reason, there are those who would deny Tiger his due and he has
suffered a couple of recent public-relations setbacks. The first was when,
despite his avowed support for the Screen Actors Guild strike, he circumvented
the labour strife by taping a Buick commercial in Canada.

Then there's the ball. Tiger made a much-heralded switch to a new Nike ball
prior to the British Open, but a consumer-watchdog group took Nike to court,
claiming that the ball Nike is selling and the ball Tiger is playing are not the
same. Nike admitted this was true, suggested that golfers probably wouldn't want
to use the same ball and then said it planned all along to make the ball
available and that it will soon be in your neighbourhood pro shop.

Personally, I think anyone who feels their performance can be enhanced by
wearing a particular shirt or swinging a particular club or using a particular
ball, should be treated to an immediate reality check.

And when it comes to celebrity endorsements, harken back to Jerry Maguire and
remember the mantra of the pro athlete: Show Me the Money.

Athletes routinely endorse products and equipment because they are paid to do
so. Whether they actually use those products is another matter. In most cases,
the top athletes have equipment custom-made to their specifications. There may a
similar product with their name on it in the sporting goods store but it bears
as much resemblance to the real thing as a NASCAR stock car does to the stock at
your local Ford or Pontiac dealer.

One of my favourite stories about equipment goes back to the early days of metal
tennis racquets. A company called Chemold developed an aluminum racquet and
enticed Rod Laver and Roy Emerson to endorse the product. The Aussie stars
picked up the new racquets and found they couldn't play with them. The went to
the wooden Dunlop Maxply models they were using but painted them silver and
applied Chemold decals. The company was then swamped for requests for the
''aluminum'' racquets which didn't exist.

Ivan Lendl once moved from adidas to Mizuno but was reluctant to give up the war
clubs adidas had been making for him. Mizuno obliged by making exact replicas
but they were so unwieldy, they were never made for the public.

Occasionally, an athlete will find a piece of equipment he likes and will use
even if he isn't being paid. That was the case with his Wilson T-2000 racquet.
Wilson couldn't sell the metal racquet because most players couldn't control
their shots. Connors is the only player who could play with the racquet.

TOO MUCH TIGER? The TV networks are only too happy to give Tiger lots of
coverage because his presence means great ratings. a couple of weeks ago, The
Golf Channel showed taped coverage of Tiger's first-round and ignored some live
action at the Buick Open.

There have been no complaints from fans but some agents representing other
players on the PGA Tour are unhappy. If there's more of Tiger, there's less of
their clients and that means less exposure for the companies they promote on
their caps, shirts and golf bags.

Maybe they should get the message and work a little harder and try to mount a
challenge to Woods.

SELIG PUSHES LORIA: We found it interesting that baseball commissioner Bud Selig
has told Expos head honcho Jeffrey Loria he has to do a better job of marketing
the team and that includes a TV deal and some English radio coverage.

You might recall earlier this year that Loria took a hard line on broadcast
negotiations and suggested he was taking his lead from Major League Baseball.
There were suggestions that baseball looked askance at deals where teams bought
time on radio stations or entered into shared-risk deals but the reality is that
at least a dozen have such deals.

I've said all along that the Expos will still be in Montreal next season because
they have no place to go and it's time for Loria to give the fans some reason to
support this team . In the most recent audience he granted the Montreal media,
he complained about inaccurate reports concerning the buyout of the local owners
but Loria has only himself to blame because he has not done anything to correct
what he regards as misinformation.

SMALL MARKET? Here's another example of why Montreal is regarded as a small
market. After announcing that it would offer the NFL Sunday Ticket and NHL
Centre Ice packages, Videotron has announced that neither will be available for
the time being. The cable monopoly says it hasn't sold enough packages although
I've heard complaints that the company has made few attempts to market the
packages which are very popular elsewhere in Canada and in the U.S.


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             215 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                             July 28, 2000, Friday

The new art of story-selling

BYLINE: MARTIN LINDSTROM

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 530 words


THOUSANDS of companies have, over the past years, been unable to establish a
good reputation among their consumer audience.

Unfortunately, this has often been the case because they failed to achieve
synergy between their strategic intentions and the real outcomes the market
perceived.

Nike provides us with a classic example. During 1999, Nike diluted its brand
dramatically. The "Just Do It" ethos became a nightmare tagline when it became
global knowledge that Nike exploited labour in third-world countries.

Just Do It was translated into counter-campaign t-shirts bearing the slogan Just
Don't Do It. Thus, the philosophy and marketing drive which Nike had spent years
creating was washed down the drain.

This fatality has to do with 180-degree branding. Quick branding doesn't exist.

To think it does would be like painting the roof of your house to repair the
holes. This is the type of dilemma most doctom sites face.

On the surface, their image is perfect, but just beneath the surface, the holes
appear.

In the split second in which you make purchases from the site or, worse, during
the longer time you spend contacting them with requests or returning products,
it's then the rain and wind start coming through the holes.

Dotcom branding has, until today, covered the first 10 degrees. What about the
other 350? A recent study conducted by Bang & Olufsen, the high-quality stereo
equipment manufacturer, shows that the future of branding doesn't lie in
imaging, the product itself or the ads.

It's the whole brand story that counts. The term "story branding" is based on
the philosophy that every product needs a story to prompt the consumer's
involvement.

I'll give an example: At home I have a salt and pepper set designed by Arne
Jacobsen.

It's nice, but not something you would spend hours talking to your guests about.
But there is a story behind the pair that you would find fascinating if you were
at my table.

You see, almost 50 years ago the designer had dinner with one of his business
partners who admired this salt and pepper set he had designed.

The business partner was so fascinated by the design that he asked his partner
to design a whole hotel around his salt and pepper set. And so he did.

It took Arne 20 years but the hotel he designed became a bit of an icon in
Copenhagen. Not only was the hotel designed to match the shakers, so were the
plates, the curtains, the beds and, well, everything.

What is your perception of this salt and pepper set now? Has it changed?
Probably, and you haven't even seen it.

Strong branding is all about creating a story or, if a story already exists,
making it spin off the product and the brand.

Fascinating stories quite often create the foundation for the whole brand -- its
philosophy, its direction and its ethos.

No matter whether you're a business-to-business player, a clicks-&-mortar
partner or just trying to win your brand strong customer loyalty, dig into your
history. Perhaps you have a goldmine somewhere which can create your full
360-degree branding.

Martin Lindstrom is chief operating officer of BT LookSmart and author

of Building on the Internet

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             216 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                             July 28, 2000, Friday

The new art of story-selling

BYLINE: MARTIN LINDSTROM

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 530 words


THOUSANDS of companies have, over the past years, been unable to establish a
good reputation among their consumer audience.

Unfortunately, this has often been the case because they failed to achieve
synergy between their strategic intentions and the real outcomes the market
perceived.

Nike provides us with a classic example. During 1999, Nike diluted its brand
dramatically. The "Just Do It" ethos became a nightmare tagline when it became
global knowledge that Nike exploited labour in third-world countries.

Just Do It was translated into counter-campaign t-shirts bearing the slogan Just
Don't Do It. Thus, the philosophy and marketing drive which Nike had spent years
creating was washed down the drain.

This fatality has to do with 180-degree branding. Quick branding doesn't exist.

To think it does would be like painting the roof of your house to repair the
holes. This is the type of dilemma most doctom sites face.

On the surface, their image is perfect, but just beneath the surface, the holes
appear.

In the split second in which you make purchases from the site or, worse, during
the longer time you spend contacting them with requests or returning products,
it's then the rain and wind start coming through the holes.

Dotcom branding has, until today, covered the first 10 degrees. What about the
other 350? A recent study conducted by Bang & Olufsen, the high-quality stereo
equipment manufacturer, shows that the future of branding doesn't lie in
imaging, the product itself or the ads.

It's the whole brand story that counts. The term "story branding" is based on
the philosophy that every product needs a story to prompt the consumer's
involvement.

I'll give an example: At home I have a salt and pepper set designed by Arne
Jacobsen.

It's nice, but not something you would spend hours talking to your guests about.
But there is a story behind the pair that you would find fascinating if you were
at my table.

You see, almost 50 years ago the designer had dinner with one of his business
partners who admired this salt and pepper set he had designed.

The business partner was so fascinated by the design that he asked his partner
to design a whole hotel around his salt and pepper set. And so he did.

It took Arne 20 years but the hotel he designed became a bit of an icon in
Copenhagen. Not only was the hotel designed to match the shakers, so were the
plates, the curtains, the beds and, well, everything.

What is your perception of this salt and pepper set now? Has it changed?
Probably, and you haven't even seen it.

Strong branding is all about creating a story or, if a story already exists,
making it spin off the product and the brand.

Fascinating stories quite often create the foundation for the whole brand -- its
philosophy, its direction and its ethos.

No matter whether you're a business-to-business player, a clicks-&-mortar
partner or just trying to win your brand strong customer loyalty, dig into your
history. Perhaps you have a goldmine somewhere which can create your full
360-degree branding.

Martin Lindstrom is chief operating officer of BT LookSmart and author

of Building on the Internet

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             219 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                      April 21, 2000 Friday FINAL EDITION

NIKE CHIEF, COLLEGE CLASH OVER PROTEST;
PHIL KNIGHT IS UPSET ABOUT THE UNIVERSITY OF OREGON'S DECISION TO SUPPORT AN
ANTI-SWEATSHOP ORGANIZATION

BYLINE: William McCall

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 385 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore.


BEAVERTON, Ore. -- Nike Chairman Phil Knight complained Thursday about the
University of Oregon's decision to join an organization of students and
activists protesting sweatshop conditions at clothing and shoe industry
factories abroad.

But Knight, an Oregon graduate and track athlete, declined to comment on a
television report that he would withdraw a reported $30 million pledge to help
expand Autzen Stadium because the school joined the Worker Rights Consortium
last week.

Still, he hinted he may be rethinking his financial generosity toward the
university, saying the school was free to join the consortium but "it does not
mean that we are required to support those efforts with which we have
fundamental disagreements."

Knight refused to confirm the size of the stadium donation or a report by
Portland-based KGW-TV, which quoted unidentified sources as saying Nike told
university officials Monday that Knight was withdrawing his pledge.

"The details of Phil's private philanthropy have and will continue to be
personal," according to the company statement.

Oregon officials said no changes had been made in any donations to the project.

"We had not heard from any of our donors that anything was any different,
whether it was Phil Knight or anybody else," Dave Williford, UO sports
information director, said Thursday.

Nike has repeatedly been the target of labor rights groups who have admitted
their strategy is aimed at the Beaverton-based athletic shoe company because it
is an industry leader and can pressure other companies to follow its example.

Knight, Nike's billionaire co-founder who once sold shoes from the back of his
car at Oregon track meets, defended the company's labor record, saying it had
become a leader in ensuring worker rights around the world.

He noted that, since he appeared at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C.,
in May 1998 to promise industry reforms, Nike has increased its minimum age
requirements for footwear workers to an industry high of 18.

Knight said Nike has raised wages more than 70 percent for footwear workers in
Indonesia during the last 20 months, improved air quality at factories and
disclosed the location of 45 domestic and foreign factories producing clothing
licensed by U.S. colleges and universities.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AP
Photo, Nike workers in Dong Nai (New York Times)

                       Copyright 2000 Contra Costa Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             221 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 16, 2000, Saturday

POUNDS 60M FORE TIGER;
 GOLF STAR'S NIKE DEAL IS BIGGEST IN SPORT HISTORY

BYLINE: Andy Lines, Us Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 274 words


GOLFING sensation Tiger Woods is set to sign a five-year pounds 60million
sponsorship deal - the biggest in sporting history.

The contract with Nike, which will put 24-year-old Tiger well on his way to
becoming sport's first billionaire, comes on top of another endorsement deal he
signed earlier this year with Buick, which is worth pounds 20 million over five
years. Tiger now has contracts with 11 companies. Financial experts believe,
because he is so young, it is "virtually certain" he will make a billion by the
time he is 40.

This summer Tiger became the youngest player to complete the Grand Slam.

His agent Mark Steinberg said: "He's 24. That's the key to this.

"He's limitless. He's finally being recognised as the greatest athlete on the
planet."

Nike golf president Bob Wood said: "It's not often you get a chance to work with
somebody who's the best in the world at what they do."

Tiger has represented Nike since turning professional in 1996.

His father Earl Woods said he felt his son would do more for Nike that legendary
basketball player Michael Jordan.

And Bob Wood agreed that was "definitely possible".

He said: "His professional longevity is greater than Michael's.

"Basketball players have a 15-year career if they're fortunate.

"Tiger has 24 more majors to play, just in the time period he is under contract
with us. He has 104 majors left until he gets to the Senior Tour."

Tiger's deal dwarfs those of other sporting stars. Soccer ace Alan Shearer has a
pounds 15million package with Umbro while racing driver David Coulthard gets
pounds 10million from Warsteiner beer.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             222 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      August 24, 2000, Thursday, Edition 1

NO, YOU CAN'T BUY TIGER'S GOLF BALLS

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 813 words


Nike admits, under pressure of a lawsuit alleging false
 advertising, that the golf balls Tiger Woods endorses for public
 sale are not the same as the ones he actually uses in
 competition.

 The manufacturers apparently juice up Tiger's private stock a tad, installing a
hard core. With a tiny flight crew on board (just kidding, it's really an
auto-pilot set-up).

Woods, you may recall, switched to Nike from Titleist a while back amid some
controversy and nastiness (i.e. there was a lot of money involved). Yesterday he
told reporters that he "really can't see an appreciable difference" in distance
between the Nike ball and the Titleist ball.

If the world's best player can't see the difference, how can us mere duffers,
who watch the ads and buy the damn things? Sales of the Nike balls, by the way,
have taken off like a Tiger 2-iron off the tee.

And, if they really do make juicier balls for the pros - ones that might turn
you from a 27-handicap into, oh, a 26 - wouldn't it be good business to actually
offer them up for sale to the voracious public?

(Ad slogan idea: "Hard-core golf with Tiger Woods." Your welcome. . . . Woods
has a mega-deal with Buick, too. Do you suppose he actually drives a Buick?
Jeez, he's 24.)

Reminder: Buyer beware.

Reminder, plus: It's not the golf ball anyway, dummy. It's the golfer.

LICENSE TO DO WHAT? The Canadian Olympic Association distributed a press release
this
 week urging consumers to patronize corporations which are
 official COA sponsors and warning us all to beware of "ambush
 marketers" who try to capitalize on the Olympics without
 supporting them. Fine, we'll keep an eye out for the
 carpetbaggers. But let's not be naive, either. It is not as if
 the licensed corporate community does not reap huge profits from
 the Olympic alliance and it is certainly not as if they channel
 all those profits back into grassroots support of our athletes.
 If only that were true.

 NAME GAMES: The Miami Dolphins have an offensive lineman named Keno Hills.
 Says Dennis Miller, the comedian on Monday Night Football
 telecasts: "Keno Hills? Sounds like where those old blue-haired
 ladies in Las Vegas want to be buried."
 Film makers were shooting a scene this week at Cinergy Field in
 Cincinnati for the movie Summer Catch, aimed for release next
 spring. It stars Freddy Prinze Jr. as a minor league pitcher who
 finally makes it to The Show and - wouldn't you just know it -
 the first batter he faces is none other than Ken Griffey Jr.

 What happens? You be the scriptwriter.

ANYONE SEE A TREND? In terms of percentage of total capacity, Blue Jays
attendance
 ranks in a tie for second worst in the American League, through
 last weekend. The Jays so far have sold 44 per cent of the seats
 at the SkyDome, which is what the Devil Rays have done in Tampa
 Bay. Minnesota, meanwhile, has sold only 29 per cent of its
 capacity. The Jays' average attendance of 22,279 is down 14.5 per
 cent from last season and 26.5 from 1998, when they averaged
 30,300.

 THE NAKED TRUTH: The latest issue of Maxim magazine features photos of several
 female American Olympic athletes posing provocatively. One of
 them, pole vaulter Jill Witdtenwyler, defends herself against the
 anticipated detractors: "There's nothing wrong with promoting
 sports through sex appeal. Let's face it: Sex sells, and the
 women of track and field are definitely sexy."

 QB OR NOT QB: The tension between Buffalo Bills quarterbacks Doug Flutie and
 Rob Johnson has resurfaced with publication of an interview with
 Johnson in the current issue of Penthouse magazine. Flutie, you
 will recall, was stripped of the starting QB job during the
 playoffs, and with Johnson at the controls the Bills came up
 short against Tennessee. Flutie subsequently said Buffalo would
 have won if he'd been allowed to start (and F&F heartily agrees,
 for what it's worth). During the Penthouse interview, which was
 conducted shortly after Flutie made his comments, Johnson said
 the Bills might have won if Flutie "was covering kicks, maybe .
 . . maybe he could have been out there on that final play. I
 think that (what Flutie said) was more of an insult to the entire
 team. That's just the type of guy Doug is. He's not much fun to
 play with - you just have to deal with it." Johnson told
 reporters in Buffalo this week that he meant Flutie was hard to
 be around that week in the playoffs, not always. "It was
 insulting to me personally, but as a team you have to feel that
 there are 21 other guys out there making plays. We're a unit.
 We're 53 guys. To say one guy would have made the difference?
 That's what I meant."

 Garth Woolsey's Fair and Foul appears Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and
Saturdays. You can message him at sports@thestar.ca


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: REUTERS PHOTO
 JUST FOR HIM:
 Nike has admitted that the golf balls Tiger Woods uses are made especially for
him, and are not for sale to the public.

                  Copyright 2000 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             223 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

NBC pulls Nike slasher ad

BYLINE: KELLY CRYDERMAN

SECTION: Entertainment; B5 / BREAK

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Nike has stirred up a tempest with its new Olympic TV commercial featuring a
chain-saw-wielding maniac chasing a female athlete.

NBC, the American carrier of the games, has pulled the ''Horror'' ad - part of
Nike's Why Sport? campaign - off the air. It features 1,500-metre American
runner Suzy Hamilton being pursued through a house and dark woods by a man
sporting a mask, similar to the one the killer wears in the Halloween movies.

Unlike most slasher movies, where the killer easily catches up with the female
victim, Hamilton dashes to safety as the bad guy slogs off in defeat. The line
at the end of the cheeky ad says, ''Why sport? You'll live longer.''

NBC spokesman Maria Battaglia said the network received hundreds of complaints
that the ad promotes violence against women.

The ad will no longer run on NBC, though two other ads in the Why Sport? series
- one featuring an Olympic cyclist performing mouth-to-mouth resuscitation on an
elephant and an another portraying a battle between a gladiator and a
skateboarder - will continue to be seen on the network. The commercial series
was not sent to CBC.

This is not the first time Nike has come into trouble because of its Olympic
commercials. During the 1996 Atlanta summer games, Nike enraged some athletes
with in-your-face slogans such as ''You don't win the silver, you lose the
gold,''and ''If you can't stand the heat, get out of Atlanta.''

Scott Reames, a spokesman at Nike's headquarters in Beaverton, Ore., said Nike
isn't trying to offend or make light of violence against women - ''in our view
Suzy Hamilton is the victor, not the victim because of her athleticism.'' And
though Nike has fielded complaint calls regarding the ad, the company has also
received compliments.

''One woman called and said, 'I'm a runner. This is fantastic. Thank you for not
portraying us as weak and scared,' '' Reames says.

Anne Hale, a marketing professor at the University of Victoria, disagrees.

''It's a good outcome, but the parametres are still a male aggressor and female
victim. That is the stereotype that I think women, as a rule, are getting very
tired of,'' Hale said, noting it's also inappropriate for that violent an ad to
be shown during the Olympics, when kids are watching.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             224 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                              June 23, 2000 Friday
                                  Late Edition

Hijacked Nike.com diverted to Melbourne

BYLINE: John Davidson

SECTION: COMPUTERS; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 464 words


Nike said it would prosecute "to the fullest extent of the law" hackers who
diverted its global website yesterday to the home page of a Melbourne-based
activist group.

The hackers, who pulled off what has been hailed as one of the most elegant
pieces of political hacking in recent memory, "hijacked" the nike.com domain
name, diverting traffic to the home page of the "S11" alliance a coalition of
union, student

and other groups critical of the workplace practices of Nike and other large
multinationals.

S11, based at RMIT in Melbourne, is organising a protest at the World Economic
Forum meeting in Melbourne on September 11 this year, following on from the
protests that took place in Seattle and Washington.

S11 disowned the domain name hijacking, thanking Nike for the extra traffic but
issuing a statement saying it had "no knowledge of the identity, whereabouts,
motives, or methods used by the disablers of the Nike Corporation's website".

Organisers said the first they heard about the hack was when they got a call
from a journalist in Seattle, Washington.

Officials at the shoe and tracksuit maker refused to comment, but issued a
statement saying that consumer credit card information was never compromised by
the attack.

The site was back online selling running shoes by the afternoon.

"After the facts are determined and security issues [sic] we intend to seek
prosecution to the fullest extent of the law," the statement said.

Federal Police in Victoria said they had not been asked by Nike to investigate
S11.

The attack was most probably achieved by changing an entry at a central look-up
site on the internet, known as a Domain Name Server.

DNSs are like the phone books of the internet, providing an interface between
the spoken-word domain names of sites that a user would enter into a computer
www.nike.com, for instance and the technical, 12-digit network addresses of the
actual computers hosting the sites.

DNS hijacking involves illegally changing the network address that's listed as
the host of the domain name, so that someone who types "www.nike.com" into their
browser gets sent to another site, in this case the s11.org site.

Because DNS servers around the world constantly exchange data with each other, a
hacker changing an entry at one key DNS can quickly get the entry changed
worldwide.

Step-by-step instructions showing how to hijack a website are readily available
on the internet. It usually involves "social engineering", in that the hackers
must somehow convince the administrator of the legitimate site address to ignore
an e-mail warning them that their domain name entry is about to be changed.

The recommended method for achieving this is bombarding the administrator with
similar warnings, hoping he or she ignores them all or responds to the wrong
one.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: Activists demonstrate against low wages in Indonesia at an anti-
Nike rally in San Francisco in 1997. Photo: REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2000 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             225 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                        June 2, 2000, Friday, Edition 1

NIKE POSTS AUDITS OF ITS OWN FACTORIES

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 172 words


LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Nike Inc. launched an offensive yesterday
 against critics who charge it with poor labour practices by
 posting details on its Web site from the inspections of some of
 its 700 factories worldwide.

 While the move may not please protesters who have called the
PricewaterhouseCoopers audits biased and inaccurate, the audits will likely shed
light on factory conditions and may spur feedback that improves Nike's
monitoring efforts, the company said.

In April, Nike chairman Phil Knight said he would end donations to his alma
mater, the University of Oregon, and revoked a $30 million (U.S.) pledge because
the university is part of the watchdog Worker Rights Consortium, which does not
give firms a say in setting terms for working conditions in Asia and Latin
America.

A consortium spokesperson was not available for comment.

Consortium members have challenged Nike's audit, saying owners spruce up their
factories for audits and workers are often afraid to tell the truth.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             226 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                          May 19, 2000, Friday, FINAL

Tiger tests new balls

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: Sports; C16

LENGTH: 184 words

DATELINE: ALVESLOHE, Germany


For the first time in 98 tournaments around the world, Tiger Woods played golf
Thursday with a swoosh instead of a Titleist.

In the latest and loudest shot fired in the golf ball wars, Woods experimented
with a Nike Golf ball in the first round of the Deutsche Bank Open, leaving Nike
hopeful it could use his massive appeal to grab a greater share of the market.

''If he decides to switch, it's an earthquake,'' said Bob Wood, president of
Nike Golf.

After a 2-under 70 that left him three strokes out of the first-round lead,
Woods said he has been experimenting with a version of the Nike Tour Accuracy
the past few months while practicing at his home course outside Orlando, Fla.

''Basically, I wanted a test round on the tour,'' Woods said. ''If I think it's
viable to switch, I'll switch. If not, I'll go back to my ball.''

Woods is under contract with Titleist, but industry sources, speaking on
condition of anonymity, have said he has an escape clause that would allow him
to terminate the deal on short notice.

''It's in my contract that I can try any ball,'' Woods said.


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             229 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                              July 23, 2000 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

Nike worker earning just $55` a month';
SYDNEY OLYMPIC GAMES

BYLINE: JIM O'ROURKE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 352 words


UNIONS and community groups will begin a shame campaign targeting international
sportswear manufacturer Nike in the lead-up to the Sydney Olympics.

An Indonesian garment worker who earns $55 a month will speak to the media and
public at a series of events before the opening ceremony.

Campaign organisers said the worker had been victimised by Nike for recruiting
others to join a union.

The NikeWatch website (www.caa.org.au/campaigns) says that in Asian factories
where sports shoes are made it is common for employees to be overworked,
underpaid and physically abused, and their health and safety neglected. Those
who try to organise other workers are persecuted.

Supporters allege the Indonesian man resigned after being threatened and his
house was ransacked.

His visit is sponsored by the unions' Fairwear campaign and Community Aid
Abroad's NikeWatch, which uses the slogan "Just Stop It", a play on the Nike
line "Just Do It".

Textile, Clothing and Footwear Union national secretary Tony Woolgar said it was
important to raise public awareness of companies that sought to use the Olympics
to enhance their public image. He said Nike exploited cheap labour while it paid
athletes such as golfer Tiger Woods $111.5 million to wear its apparel.

"With Indonesian workers earning just $US32 ($55) per month, Woods's sponsorship
would pay 60,000 workers for two years," he said. "Looking at it another way, it
would take an Indonesian Nike worker 33,000 years to earn Woods's endorsement."

The Indonesian worker will be in Australia from September 2 to 16, with two days
in Melbourne from September 9.

In a response to criticism of its labour practices, the US-based Nike set up a
program to monitor contracted production plants to ensure legal labour
guidelines were met, naming it "Transparency 101".

It has promised to make public the results, including external monitoring visits
by accountancy firm PricewaterhouseCoopers.

On its official website Nike says: "It is our sincere hope that this new step
forward will lead to greater transparency in our industry and continuous
improvement of global working conditions."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             230 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Nelson Daily News (British Columbia)

                          December 20, 2000 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bauer Nike Hockey Inc. to close Montreal head office next year

BYLINE: Montreal Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 144  words

DATELINE: MONTREAL


MONTREAL (CP) -- Bauer Nike Hockey Inc., which has slashed 900 jobs at its St-
Jerome, Que., plant during the last four years, will close its Montreal head
offices in the spring with the loss of 10 jobs, company president Gary Kiedaisch
said Tuesday.

The skate and hockey-equipment manufacturer, owned by footwear giant Nike Inc.,
has already halved the number of its office employees to 30 in the last year,
Kiedaisch said from Munich, where he's on business.

Recent developments have not been kind to Montreal as an ``oligopoly'' in the
global hockey-equipment manufacturing industry, of which it controls about
two-thirds.

Last week, it was disclosed that the Caisse de depot et placement du Quebec
pension fund manager appears to have called in a $136-million loan to Bauer
Nike's chief rival, The Hockey Co., revoking a previously agreed-to extension on
the loan.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2000 Nelson Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             231 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 4, 2000, Saturday

FOOTBALL: NEW DEAL RAISES FEARS WITH UNITED

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 278 words


SHAREHOLDERS United have grave concerns about Manchester United's new record kit
deal with Nike.

Nike will replace Umbro as United's kit manufacturers from July 2002 in a 13
year deal with a staggering pounds 302.9million.

However, Shareholders United are worried the Reds may be in breach of their own
club charter because of the allegations that Nike uses child labour.

In a letter sent to chief executive Peter Kenyon earlier this week, vice chair
Michael Crick, wrote: "Article 1.6 of the new club charter says, 'Manchester
United plc opposes the exploitation of child labour. No orders will be placed
from suppliers employing child labour under the age allowed in the country
concerned'. Shareholders United fully support this."

United's group marketing director Peter Draper tried to allay these fears, but
Shareholders United remain to be convinced.

The shareholders group also fear that Nike may have too much influence on United
and may pressure the club into representing the American company around the
world in various tournaments.

Spokesman Oliver Houston pointed out Nike's relationship with the Brazilian FA
was being examined by the Brazilian government.

He said: "This is not just about the allegations of child labour and we're
concerned that commercial pressure will be put on United.

"United went out to the Far East to play in a Pepsi tournament and who's to say
that similar things won't happen with Nike.

"We're also still awaiting the outcome of the Brazilian Parliamentary Commission
on Nike's interference.

"From a PR point of view it seems foolhardy to rush into this after the warning
we gave them."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited


                             232 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                November 4, 2000

Football: United's sponsorship deal raises concerns

LENGTH: 207 words


MANCHESTER United's massive and ground-breaking deal with sportswear giants Nike
may have put the club on to a new financial plane; but the (GBP) 302.9 million
"strategic alliance" has already opened a can of worms.

The shareholders group Shareholders United fear that Nike may have too much
influence on United from August 2002 and may pressure the club into representing
the American company around the world in various tournaments.

The Brazilian government are investigating claims that Nike, who have a
sponsorship deal with the national team, were involved in team selection and
insisted on Ronaldo playing in the 1998 World Cup Final despite the striker
having a nervous breakdown on the day of the match.

Shareholders United also have concerns the Reds may be in breach of their own
club charter because of allegations that Nike uses child labour.

Spokesman Oliver Houston said: "This is not just about the allegations of child
labour and we're concerned that commercial pressure will be put on United.

"We're also still awaiting the outcome of the Brazilian Parliamentary Commission
on Nike's interference.

"From a PR point of view it seems foolhardy to rush into this after the warning
we gave them."


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.


                             233 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               November 17, 2000

Ditch Nike deal say worried Reds fans

BYLINE: SEB RAMSAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 381 words


Child labour claims fear


MANCHESTER United were today being urged by shareholding supporters not to enter
into a GBP 310m partnership with sportswear giant Nike.

The fans say serious allegations over the American company's use of child labour
could tarnish the club's credibility and contravene its new club charter.
Earlier this month it was revealed that United could sell off its whole retail
arm to the company for GBP 23.3m over 13 years.

Besides the Nike issue, shareholders were due to ask several tough questions of
club chiefs at the Manchester United AGM today, including seeking an explanation
as to how the disastrous appointment of PR chief Alison Ryan came about.  The
club was forced to make an embarrassing U-turn over its job offer after it
emerged she had lied on her CV.

Today Oliver Houston, spokesman for Shareholders United, said there were serious
concerns over many aspects of the planned Nike deal.  We are not setting
ourselves up as an anti-child labour campaign group but this deal seems to be in
direct contravention of our new customer charter which states that the club will
not deal with companies which employ it,'' he said.  There have been serious
allegations over the years about Nike's use of child labour, most recently in a
Panorama programme screened last month. We will be asking if we will have a
get-out clause if Nike are found to be dabbling in child labour.  There are
enough get-out clauses for them if we fall below half way in the league of fail
to qualify for Europe. If we win the European Cup five times in a row, will we
be able to ask for more money.  We are also concerned that selling your whole
merchandising arm for GBP 23m a year might not be the best deal. We are worried
the club has rushed into this and is in danger of committing another PR gaffe?''

Shareholder United were also due to call for a wider range of ticket prices to
make it easier for young people to watch matches and encourage a new, solid fan
base.  There's no contradiction between wanting to have a greater range of
ticket prices and wanting to have success,'' he said.  If the executives pay
more and the kids pay less that will sustain a good customer base.'' Comment:
Page 8



LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 Manchester Evening News


                             234 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

Tiger changing ball

SECTION: Sports; C4

LENGTH: 183 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Tiger Woods is making the switch to the swoosh. After testing a new ball during
competition in Germany and in the Memorial Tournament, Woods said yesterday he
will formally switch to the Nike Tour Accuracy ball when he plays the U.S. Open
at Pebble Beach in two weeks. Woods finished third in the Deutsche Bank Open,
and then won the Memorial last week by five strokes. ''I think it's done pretty
good so far,'' he said last week. The announcement officially ends a marketing
conflict between Woods's top two golf sponsors - Nike and Titleist - that began
last year when Nike entered the ball market. Titleist argued that Nike was using
Woods to promote golf balls because of two commercials - one that showed Woods
bouncing a ball off his wedge, another that showed hackers on the range belting
300-yard drives as soon as Woods showed up. CEO Wally Uihlein contemplated a
lawsuit, but instead reworked Woods's deal so that he was paid only when he used
Titleist equipment in tournaments. Titleist also gave up its right to have its
logo on his bag and to use Woods in advertisements.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             236 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                November 4, 2000

Umbro fury' at United world record Nike deal

BYLINE: ANDREW NOTT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 339 words



MANCHESTER UNITED have signed a world-record kit sponsorship deal with sport
giant Nike.

The world's biggest sports clothing manufacturer has agreed to pay the Reds GBP
309.9m over 13 years - a staggering GBP 23.3m a year.  But the deal could spark
a legal battle with existing kit sponsors Umbro. United's contract with the
Cheadle-based firm does not expire until the end of next season.  The unique
deal, which begins on August 1, 2002, gives Nike exclusive rights to sponsor
United gear, manufacture and sell its merchandise, and operate the Reds'
existing retail operations.

Nike will form a separate subsidiary company to deal specifically with United
sponsorship matters and has pledged to invest GBP 1m a year in grassroots
football.  Umbro executives are reportedly seething that the Nike deal has
become public knowledge and are believed to have consulted legal advisers.

Sports lawyer Lee Brierley, a partner at law firm DLA in Manchester, said:
Normally, these contracts have a clause in them which prevents the football club
from announcing a new suplier before the end of the contract. Umbro will be
looking at their contract and will have to prove that they suffered a loss in
sales and profits.'' Some United shareholders are also unhappy about the Nike
deal.  The Shareholders United group fears the firm will have too much influence
on United and may pressure it into representing Nike around the world in soccer
tournaments.

Today, United's chief executive Peter Kenyon, who joined the Reds from Umbro,
said: There's no question that anything will happen that will disrupt our
contract with Umbro, which runs until 2002. After that, as and when we are ready
to say something we will do so. But I just want to reaffirm that Umbro are our
sportswear partners through to 2002.'' An Umbro spokesman said: Umbro has
enjoyed a long-standing relationship with Manchester United Football Club, but
the current contract will not be extended beyond July 2002.''




LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 Manchester Evening News


                             238 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 22, 2000

NIKE BAG DUVAL WITH GBP 16M FIVE-YEAR DEAL

BYLINE: MARTIN HARDY

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 373 words


David Duval is set to quit Titleist and join Nike's swoosh squad in a deal that
will rock the golf industry.

A five-year, GBP 16 million deal, which could double with bonuses, has already
been agreed and the contract is expected to be completed early in the New Year.

The deal will give Nike two of the world's top three golfers - a similar length
deal, but double the cost, having already been signed with No1 Tiger Woods.

The two good friends teamed up recently to win the World Cup for America in
Argentina and, significantly, used the Nike ball during the foursomes section of
the four-day event.

Duval has also been spotted wearing his new sponsor's shoes.

A deal is understood to have been signed at Nike headquarters in Oregon this
week, but will not be completed until Duval's existing contract with Titleist is
sorted out.

It stills has more than two years to run and Titleist, already smarting because
of the Woods abdication, could seek compensation from the company which is fast
becoming a serious player in the golf market Titleist has long dominated.

Duval's switch is expected to increase the intensity of that rivalry and extend
the boundaries of the golf ball wars which Callaway, another of the industry's
big guns, has recently joined.

Neither company would comment on the deal yesterday, although an announcement is
imminent.

Duval, the world No3, is believed to have been peeved that when Titleist signed
fellow top 10 players Davis Love III and Phil Mickelson to recent long-term
deals, they did not renegotiate terms with him. Although Woods still plays a
full bag of Titleist clubs, Duval's deal is understood to include clauses which
tie him to Nike once they have manufactured a set to his specifications.

Duval is also expected to sign a new agreement with his management handlers IMG
at the start of next year.

Although Duval has been hampered for most of the season by a back injury, he
returned late in the year to win another title and emphasise that he is one of
the few current players capable of mounting a serious attack on Woods' dominance
of the game.

Despite all his setbacks Duval finished seventh on the PGA Tour rankings with
GBP 1.5m in prizemoney.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                             240 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 15, 2000

Golf king Tiger in $ 100m deal

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 180 words


TIGER WOODS has been setting records on the golf course all summer.

Now he is on the verge of an endorsement

contract with Nike worth 100 million dollars (£71.5million) believed to be the
richest in sport.

Woods and Nike agreed a five-year deal that will pay him an average of
£14million a year.

The contract could be signed today, said his agent, Mark Steinberg.

He declined to discuss specifics of the deal,

but said it was an

"outstanding contract".

Steinberg added:"It compensates Tiger not just for what he's done with Nike, but
what he has done for golf and sport,"

In a record-smashing summer, Woods has become perhaps the

biggest star in sport, with one magnificent achievement after another - three
straight major championships, a scoring record in each one, and the youngest
player at 24 to complete the Grand Slam.

His latest triumph was winning the Canadian Open last weekend.

Nike golf president Bob Wood confirmed it was a five-year deal, but

wouldn't disclose details. He said the contract was tied partly to sales.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TIGER: set for a giant Nike pay day

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                             241 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                              May 19, 2000, Friday

Tiger puts ball rival in a hole

SOURCE: REUTERS

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 118

LENGTH: 418 words


GOLF

TIGER Woods used a Nike golf ball playing the first round of the European PGA's
Deutsche Bank Open today, a move that could signal the end of his shaky
relationship with rival Titleist.

It could also make Nike Golf, which has signed up several big-name golfers this
year, a legitimate force in the equipment industry.

But Woods said he hasn't decided whether to make the switch yet.

"I've been testing it for a few months -- basically I wanted a test round on the
tour. If I think it's viable to switch, I'll switch. If not, I'll go back to my
ball," said Woods, following his first round 2-under 70 playing with the Nike.

Woods said testing the Nike under tournament conditions didn't violate his
contract with Titleist, which pays him $3.5 million a year to use Titleist clubs
and balls.

It was renegotiated last year after a dispute over A Nike commercial that showed
Woods bouncing a ball off his wedge.

An industry source said Woods has a clause in his contract with Titleist that
would allow him to terminate it on short notice.

Titleist declined to make an immediate comment, spokesman Joe Gomes said.

Nike and Woods have been renegotiating his five-year, $70 million deal for more
than a year and are close to a new contract, expected to at least double that
amount. Those talks could be prolonged if Woods -- who wears only Nike clothes,
shoes and hats -- decides to play its ball.

For Woods, the Nike ball has a similar feel to the Titleist he currently uses,
but was better in the wind.

"It flies a little bit different. It just seems to hold its lines better," Woods
said.

Nike made a strong push into the competitive ball market this year, signing up
players such as Paul Azinger, Notah Begay and British Open champion Paul Lawrie.

"Let's say he does switch. That would be huge for us," said Bob Wood, president
of Nike Golf. "Golf is a business where it's tough on the equipment side to
break through. For him to play our product says a lot about it."

Nike said Woods has been testing the ball since the beginning of the year.

The world No. 1 and the player who is chasing him for the US top spot this year,
Sweden's Jesper Parnevik, shot 70s and are three strokes off the pace set by
Miguel Jimenez after the first round of the tournament in Hamburg.

The Spanish Ryder Cup player, who lost a title play-off against Australia's
Robert Allenby in a tournament on the same Gut Kaden course in 1994, finished
with a five-under-par 67.

REUTERS

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             242 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                          May 19, 2000, Friday, FINAL

Woods bolsters battle of the balls: Company hopes Tiger's switch could give Nike
leg up on $820-million industry

BYLINE: Doug Ferguson

SECTION: Business; D6

LENGTH: 342 words


For the first time in 98 tournaments around the world, Tiger Woods teed up a
Nike golf ball yesterday instead of a Titleist.

For Mr. Woods, using the Nike ball in the first round of the Deutsche Bank Open
in Germany was just an experiment.

But it was the loudest shot fired yet in the war between upstart Nike and
long-established makers of golf balls, such as Titleist, Maxfli and Callaway.
Nike would love to claim its ball is used by the No. 1 player in the world and
gain a larger slice of the lucrative golf equipment market.

''If he decides to switch, it's an earthquake,'' said Bob Wood, president of
Nike Golf.

After a 2-under-par 70 that left him three strokes out of the first-round lead
in Germany, Mr. Woods said he has been experimenting with a version of the Nike
Tour Accuracy ball the past few months while practising at his home course
outside Orlando, Florida.

''Basically, I wanted a test round on the tour,'' Mr. Woods said. ''If I think
it's viable to switch, I'll switch. If not, I'll go back to my ball.''

Mr. Woods has an apparel contract with Nike, but a five-year contract with
Titleist that pays him $2 million a year to use their clubs and balls. Industry
sources have said he has an escape clause that would allow him to terminate that
deal on short notice.

Titleist spokesman Joe Gomes said the company would not comment.

For Woods to change could be just what Nike needs to move into the
highly-competitive and highly-profitable golf-ball industry. The National Golf
Foundation says Americans spent $820 million on golf balls in 1999.

Titleist has the largest slice of the golf-ball pie - - about 50 per cent. Nike
entered the ball market last year with limited success, and this year signed up
14 touring pros to use its ball.

''People who enjoy golf talk equipment -- what irons you just bought, what balls
you play,'' said Nike's Mr. Wood.

''For us to become a great golf brand, which is our desire, we feel it's really
important to have a foothold in the equipment business.''


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CP Color Photo: File Photo / Tiger Woods played the first round of
yesterday's Deutsche Bank Open with a Nike ball, a change from his sponsorship
deal with Titleist.

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             243 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 8, 2000

Brand values: Nike: The fax

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 147 words


Share tip Dollars 100 invested in Nike in May 1988, the year in which it started
the Just Do It ads, would have been worth Dollars 1,700 10 years later. The same
investment in the S&P500 would have been worth Dollars 552. The company's shares
have performed less well since

Selling space The first Niketown opened in 1992. The 70,000 sq ft shop in London
is expected to attract 3m visitors a year

Just say no Nike offered Ralph Nader, the consumer rights campaigner and
presidential candidate, Dollars 25,000 to "take a light-hearted jab" at the
company's poor human rights record in an ad. He said no

Product development In its attempt to dominate the sports shoe market in the
1970s, Nike created a red and silver lame disco shoe. The first Air Jordan
basketball boot was sold in 1985. Latest product is a "Swift Suit", a bodysuit
more aerodynamic than skin


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             245 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                January 8, 2000

Soccer shirts off shelves over toxic chemical fears

BYLINE: JO BOWMAN

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 245 words


Sportswear giant Nike has ordered a popular style of football shirt off Hong
Kong shelves over claims they may contain a toxic chemical.

A "couple of hundred" of the yellow and black shirts - part of German side
Borussia Dortmund's home strip - have been sold to soccer fans, who were
yesterday advised not to wear them.

The alert followed a German television report that the jerseys contained
tributyltin, a heavy metal compound used in anti-barnacle paint for ships.

The chemical is also used to kill bacteria and quell the smell of sweat, but
British and Dutch tests show it causes mutations in marine snails, and the World
Wildlife Fund is calling for its global ban.

At high levels in humans, tributyltin is believed to cause neurological
problems, damage the immune system and harm the liver.

William Chong Kam-fu, product line manager for Nike Hong Kong, said all of
Nike's makers were barred from using the chemical, but that tests were being
done to check the safety of the shirts.

He said about 20 sports shops in the SAR carried the shirts and all had been
asked to withdraw them from sale as a precaution.

We cannot prove now whether the story by German TV station ARD is valid, Mr
Chong said. "Nike Germany has conducted its own test with all the Borussia
Dortmund jerseys and the result is there's no tributyltin found in them."

The company will carry out a joint test with the TV station. Nike's hotline is
2751 4988.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: One of the Nike shirts withdrawn from sale in a toxic chemical alert.

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2000 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                             246 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             May 4, 2000, Thursday

Actor Woods just won't do it

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE JACKMAN in New York

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 90

LENGTH: 266 words


TIGER Woods threw a potential $150 million contract into jeopardy yesterday by
choosing to join the ranks of thousands of striking minor league actors instead
of shooting a Nike commercial.

Nike was due to shoot the latest ad in a popular series featuring the golfing
superstar when Woods announced he was supporting the Screen Actors Guild's
campaign to get better pay for commercials.

"There is a strike going on and we're abiding by it," his agent Mark Steinberg
said.

Woods' sponsorship deal with Nike is being renegotiated, with industry
commentators predicting he could easily earn up to $150 million over five years
under the new deal.

The extraordinary popularity of his ads, particularly one in which he expertly
bounces a golf ball on a club head, ensures Nike probably will not complain too
loudly about Woods' no-show at the scheduled shoot at his home course near
Orlando, Florida.

But the company was clearly concerned the ad, which it had hoped to release on
June 15 to coincide with the start of the US Open, would not be finished in
time.

Nike spokesman Mike Kelly said it was unclear when Woods would be available for
a new shoot.

"The last I heard it was to be rescheduled," Kelly said.

"Tiger's schedule is pretty hectic so it's hard to say. It may be a couple of
months, it may be a couple of weeks."

Woods' move ensured the strike, which involves 135,000 actors but so far has
attracted limited attention, was thrown into the headlines.

"We deeply appreciate the support of this international superstar," SAG
spokesman Greg Krizman said.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             247 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 10, 2000

New 'beach ball' perplexes goalies

BYLINE: Will Buckley

SECTION: Observer Sport Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 545 words


THE MOST DISAPPOINTING news of the week was that Tony Blair should take time out
from the UN millennium summit in New York to chat about transfer fees with
fellow European leaders.

For Blair to be concerned about something as trivial as football transfers
during a conference dedicated to freeing people from the scourge of war and
striving for an equitable world is doubly worrying. First, it betokens a lack of
perspective. Surely the people of Rwanda have slightly more pressing concerns
than those afflicting an advantaged minority fretting over their contract
details. Second, it is an ugly sign that football might become an election
issue.

Labour will go all out for footie-related photo shoots however crass. The
Tories, meanwhile, will toe the Rangers line: in Europe, technically, but not
for very long nor in any meaningful sense.

The shame of it is is that Blair needn't have bothered. Red cards were the first
burning issue of this nascent football season, transfers the second, but the
world has moved on. Now, the talking point is the new Nike ball.

As Silvinho proved at Stamford Bridge, it curves, it swerves, it busts the net.
It's almost as if those clever peo ple at Nike have affixed some magnetic device
within it to ensure an all-singing, all-scoring, all-Nike-boot-selling game.

So far this season there are 3.14 goals in a Premiership match - way above
average. The goalies are disconsolate. Everton keeper Paul Gerrard says: 'There
is a difference between the new Nike ball and the Mitre ball we used last
season. The Nike ball is lighter and it moves through the air a lot faster. It
also swerves like hell.

'The Mitre ball was heavier and it had a truer line through the air. The Nike
swerves all over the place, but the one advantage for keepers is that you can
kick it further. My goal-kicks are reaching the other penalty area at times and
that's a good thing.' Certainly for Everton fans who, with Duncan Ferguson
injured, were beginning to wonder where the goals might come from.

David Seaman, a goalkeeper who is an excuse short of an explanation, cannot
agree fast enough.

'It's an exciting season but not for the goalies. . . There are a lot of goals
going in and a lot of strange ones at that. I saw Benito Carbone's against
Chelsea. People slagged off Ed de Goey but that ball has gone all over the
place. It can make you look a fool. There is a massive difference. It's like one
of those balls you buy on the beach for a quid. It moves around from side to
side and everywhere.'

The Manchester United coach, Steve McClaren, chimes in: 'They have done certain
tests and it moves through the air faster. Our players have noticed that it does
fly.'

Something is clearly up, so I confidently predict that you will hear 'Oohhh
yesss, that surely must be a contender for goal of the season' at least a dozen
times between now and the end of the Olympics.

They said what. . .?

'Yes, it is fun to be playing but I don't like U.S. Open so much. Transportation
bad, food bad, locker room bad. Big tournament that's OK. But this place is
little bit crazy.' Elena Dementieva, the 18-year-old Russian, is thrilled to
make the semi-finals of the U.S. Open, but isn't crazy about the Open itself.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             248 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            June 21, 2000, Wednesday

Cathy runs into 'sorry' ad row Nike denies exploiting athletes

BYLINE: TOM SALOM

LENGTH: 312 words


NIKE has been criticised for using Aboriginal runner Cathy Freeman in a
commercial featuring the word "sorry" 15 times.

Freeman plays only a minor role in the ad but the timing of its release has
stung Aboriginal activists.

National Sorry Day Committee chairwoman Audrey Kinnear said Nike was trying to
exploit the Aboriginal reconciliation process.

She said the continuous use of the word "sorry" trivialised the issue of whether
the Federal Government should apologise to Aborigines.

"By using 'sorry' in so many ways and so many times, they are actually
trivialising what 'sorry' stands for," she said.

Nike has used 20 mainly Olympic athletes who apologise to family, friends and
workmates for an obsession with sport.

Most, including runner Steve Moneghetti and footballer James Hird, say sorry in
a light-hearted manner for being driven by success.

Teenage runner Georgie Clarke apologises to her school friends for training
instead of walking home with them.

Embattled spin-king Shane Warne says sorry to Dennis Lillee, in a reference to
breaking Lillee's wicket-taking record.

Freeman does not actually say sorry but turns to the camera and says, 'Can we
talk about this later?" before running off.

Nike Olympics spokeswoman Megan Ryan said the timing of the commercial was
purely co-incidental. Ms Ryan said Nike was trying to show how athletes had to
apologise to a lot of people they did not have time for during Olympic
preparations.

"Whilst we understand there is some sensitivity and contention around the
'sorry' issue, it was a more behind-the-scenes look at athletes who make no
apologies for the fact they have to say sorry to a lot of people," she said.

"Sorry is word used by people every day."

But Ms Kinnear said Aborigines were offended that Freeman was being "used" to
capitalise on the reconciliation debate.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             250 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                           August 23, 2000, Wednesday

NIKE TO RUN WITH WOMEN SNEAKERS

BYLINE: By JUDITH SCHOOLMAN DAILY NEWS BUSINESS WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 435 words

Air Weatherspoons anyone?

Nike's just discovered that women, too, wear sneakers, and some are even stars,
like the New York Liberty's Teresa Weatherspoon.

In an effort to sell more athletic shoes and jog bras in an increasingly
competitive marketplace, the maker of Air Jordans said yesterday it would soon
barrage the market with high- and moderate-priced items for sports-minded women.

By creating a new division and moving around some its top executives, Nike said
it wants women's shoes and clothes to eventually generate a third of the
company's sales.

In the year ended in May, women's sales of Nike goods amounted to $1.55 billion,
or about 20% of its worldwide total.

"Nike's women's business is one of our major growth accelerators in the U.S. and
internationally, making it one of our company's top priorities," chairman Phil
Knight said.

With the growing popularity of women's professional basketball and the
popularity of prominent female Olympians such as track star Marion Jones, the
interest in women's sports and fitness is soaring.

But other manufacturers have had the same idea, and already own a slice of the
market.

Tommy Hilfiger, Gap, Polo Ralph Lauren and even luxury label Prada have made a
strong foothold in the women's athleticwear market.

Customers appear to prefer their more fashionable, and less gym class-looking
clothes, analysts said.

At Nike, Clare Hammill, who was most recently involved in the upcoming launch of
the Techlab line of sports accessories, was named vice president, women's
business. The sports-inspired Techlab products include a speed and distance
monitor, a heart rate monitor and a two-way radio for runners and other
athletes.

Wall Street reacted coolly to the new women's division - perhaps concerned about
the costs of developing new products and promotion - sending Nike's stock down
more than 10% yesterday. It fell $4.75 to $42.13, right in the middle of its
52-week range of $25.81 to $59.25.

In addition to concerns among investors, Nike also continues to face protests
over its use of factories in Southeast Asia, particularly in Vietnam and
Indonesia, where workers are paid a mere fraction of what an average Air Jordan
might cost.

Nike is the largest private employer in Vietnam, with a work force of more than
45,000 at five factories owned and operated by contractors from South Korea and
Taiwan.

Recently, Knight sent a scathing message to his alma mater, the University of
Oregon, pledging to withhold future endowments because of student protests of
his company's overseas manufacturing record.


LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.


                             252 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     September 15, 2000, Friday, Edition 1

$100 MILLION MAN

BYLINE: Doug Ferguson

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 390 words





ASSOCIATED PRESS

Fresh off his record-breaking summer of golf, Tiger Woods is on the verge of
signing a $100 million (all figures U.S.) endorsement contract with Nike
believed to be the richest in sports, The Associated Press has learned.

Mark Steinberg, Woods' agent at IMG, declined to discuss specifics of the deal
yesterday, only to say it was an "outstanding contract."

"We are within days of a signature," he said.

"It compensates Tiger not just for what he's done with Nike, but what he has
done for golf and sports."

Woods' previous contract with Nike was said to be $40 million (U.S.) over five
years. He was used heavily in their advertisements and established his own line
of clothing and shoes.

A source close to the negotiations, speaking on condition of anonymity,
described it as the "largest contract in sports marketing history," worth about
$100 million over five years.

"There are so many different revenue streams," the source said. "It's impossible
to calculate what the end result will be."

Nike Golf president Bob Wood described the contract as "pretty creative."

"It's not often you get a chance to work with somebody who's the best in the
world at what they do," he said. "Working with and being associated with Tiger
Woods has created an incredible amount of positive energy about Nike Golf and
Nike."

While Woods also declined to discuss contract details, he did say the amount was
partly tied to sales.

Woods has represented Nike since turning professional in 1996. In just four
years, he has won all four major championships, becoming, at 24, the youngest
player to do so. He set the scoring record in each of them, and he has attracted
a record number of TV viewers just about every week.

In June, he gave Nike a huge lift when he switched to the Nike Tour Accuracy
ball. He went on to win the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach by 15 strokes, the largest
winning margin in the 140-year history of major championship golf.

The Nike Golf president said its market share for balls has increased from about
1 per cent in April to nearly 4 per cent.

Nike also is considering a move toward golf clubs.

Earlier this year, Woods signed an endorsement deal with Buick worth $30 million
over five years and carries its logo on his bag.


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: RON SCHWAYNE/REUTERS FILE PHOTO
 DRIVING FOR DOUGH:
 Tiger Woods, shown teeing off at last month at Firestone Country Club, is about
to become even richer with a $100 million (U.S.) endorsement pact. His old Nike
deal was worth $40 million.

                  Copyright 2000 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             253 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                               November 15, 2000

Sacked workers confront Woods

SECTION: CITY EDITION; SPORT; GOLF; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 351 words


Tiger Woods was yesterday forced to run the gauntlet of about 100 sacked Nike
employees who staged an angry protest inside the lobby of the Bangkok hotel
where he is staying.

The world's top golfer, who arrived in the Thai capital to play in the Johnnie
Walker Classic, was leaving a ceremony inside the building where he had been
conferred with an honorary doctorate in sports science.

Woods, whose mother is Thai, would have been expecting a warm welcome to the
land where he has been hailed as a hero during past visits.

But this time he had to be escorted through the noisy protesters by a phalanx of
bodyguard and officials as he returned to his room.

Looking somewhat taken aback, he put his head down and walked past without
making any comment as the protesters shouted questions at him.

Organisers said Woods, whose contract with Nike nets him $ 100 million over five
years, should listen to their claims that they have been unlawfully dismissed by
Nike in Thailand.

"He should be able to really understand why that company can give him so much
money," said Thai Labour Committee official Lek Junya Yumprasert.

"It would take the workers here 72,000 years of work for Nike on their wages
here to make that money," she said.

The demonstrators said they were part of a group of 1,016 workers who were still
waiting to be compensated a total of 41 million baht ((pounds) 853,000) after
being laid off by Nike in September.

Carrying placards reading "Tiger Woods putting around workers rights" and "Tiger
Woods please help us" the workers gathered in the foyer of the Shangri La hotel
and resisted attempts by hotel staff and Woods's entourage to shift them.

Nike, which unions say employs roughly 70,000 Thais, has frequently been accused
of ill-treating its Asian employees. It is charged with subjecting them to
inadequate pay and poor working conditions, as well as banning union membership.

During the degree ceremony, Woods said it was a "tremendous honour" to be
recognised for his sporting and charitable achievements. "This is a humbling
experience," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2000 The Irish Times


                             254 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                       May 19, 2000 Friday Final Edition

Woods enters ball war

SOURCE: Associated Press

SECTION: Sports; Golf Notebook; Pg. A55

LENGTH: 456 words

For the first time in 98 tournaments around the world, Tiger Woods played golf
Thursday with a Nike instead of a Titleist.

In the latest and loudest shot fired in the golf ball wars, Woods experimented
with a Nike ball in the first round of the Deutsche Bank Open at Alveslohe,
Germany, leaving Nike Golf hopeful it could use his massive appeal to grab a
greater share of the market.

"If he decides to switch, it's an earthquake," said Bob Wood, president of Nike
Golf.

Whether either happens remains to be seen.

Woods said he has been experimenting with a version of the Nike Tour Accuracy
the past few months while practicing at his home course outside Orlando, Fla.

"Basically, I wanted a test round on the tour," Woods said. "If I think it's
viable to switch, I'll switch. If not, I'll go back to my ball."

Woods is under contract with Titleist, but industry sources, speaking on
condition of anonymity, have said he has an escape clause that would allow him
to terminate the deal on short notice.

"It's in my contract that I can try any ball," Woods said. Under his Nike
contract, Woods wears clothes, shoes and a hat.

OUTTA MY WAY

Woods had some words of advice on how to handle an unruly German crowd that
followed him during first-round play at the Deutsche Bank Open.

With Spanish Ryder Cup player Miguel Angel Jimenez holding a one-stroke at
5-under par 67 over a trio of players, Woods overcame bogeys on his first two
holes Thursday to finish three back with a 70 at the $2.3-million-US event.

But Woods, the star attraction despite the appearance of the entire European
Ryder Cup team at the event, had to deal with flash bulbs going off during his
swing and spectators wandering on to the fairways.

"The problem can be solved very easily. In the States we have a one arm length
rule, one away from the ropes," Woods said.

"Here it's a little bit different. They walk in the middle of the fairways and
stand right in front of you."

COOK'S SPECIAL: EAGLE

John Cook scored an eagle to give him the first-round lead Thursday in the
Colonial at Fort Worth, Tex. His 4-under-par 66 put him a stroke ahead of a
group of eight players, including Mike Weir of Bright's Grove, Ont.

Cook holed a nine-iron shot from 127 yards for an eagle-2 on his 15th hole, the
393-yard 6th.

"It was 12 feet short and then spun toward the hole," Cook said. "It kind of
went in like a putt. From what I've been seeing this year, I could see that
thing bounce over the green."

DUVAL SICK

David Duval withdrew from the Colonial about an hour before he was scheduled to
tee off.

Duval has been feeling sick since Monday night, and did not play in Wednesday's
pro-am event at Colonial Country Club.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reuters; U.S. golfer Tiger Woods plays from the roof of a sports
department store in Hamburg Thursday during a hole-in-one charity event. The
'green' was atop a building 125 metres away. It's not known which brand of golf
balls he chose for this commercial stunt.

TYPE: Sports; Column

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             255 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 6, 2000

Nike gives US universities the boot as student anti-sweatshop demands rise

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell in Los Angeles

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 492 words


Duncan Campbell in Los Angeles

The sportswear manufacturer Nike has withdrawn millions of dollars of
sponsorship from three American universities because of the activities of
campus-based anti-sweatshop groups.

The move is the latest in a running battle between leading multinational firms
and the student anti-sweatshop movement which has mushroomed on campuses during
the last year.

In the past three weeks, Nike has withdrawn from financial arrangements worth
more than $ 50m ( pounds 30m) with the University of Oregon, the University of
Michigan and Brown University. The sports firm had provided free equipment for
the universities' sports teams and had made large donations and endowments.

Nike objects to the demands being made by the Workers Rights Consortium, a body
made up of students, university and union officials, and human rights
campaigners.

The WRC, which campaigns for improved working conditions in countries which pro
duce clothes for the western markets, supports unannounced visits to factories
and minimum working conditions.

Nike has said it provides better working conditions than its competitors and
makes a conscious effort to ensure that its factories operate fairly and
humanely. The company supports another monitoring group, the Fair Labour
Association, which the WRC claims is dominated by companies and does not carry
out tough enough inspections.

Last month Phil Knight, Nike's chairman and founder, announced that he would not
be making a $ 30m donation to his alma mater, the University of Oregon, because
the company considered the WRC, which has branches in nearly 50 universities,
unfriendly towards business in general.

Nike has also accused the WRC of being a tool of the US unions, which have been
unhappy at seeing manufacturing jobs go abroad.

Since then, Nike has broken its links with Michigan and Brown universities. The
company equipped the Michigan athletics teams in a deal worth around $ 22m over
six years and the men's and women's ice hockey squads at Brown.

Michigan is now negotiating with other sports manufacturers, including Adidas,
Puma and Reebok. One Michigan athlete was quoted as saying: 'The swoosh (Nike's
logo) is just a symbol. The person makes the player, not the shoes.'

The question of whether US manufacturers are using sweatshops at home and abroad
has become an important issue in student politics. Last month, 12 university
administration buildings were occupied by students objecting to the
administration's investment policies.

Increasingly, student bodies are demanding that the universities should only
engage in 'ethical investments', and companies deemed to use sweated labour have
been targeted in pickets and demonstrations.

Such is the interest in the issue that the Museum of Tolerance in los Angeles
has staged a special sweatshop exhibition, detailing the history of sweatshop
labour and campaigns against it.


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             256 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 04, 2000, Saturday

United fans question Nike deal

BYLINE: By Richard Bright

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 222 words

A GROUP of Manchester United shareholders have expressed grave concerns about
the club's record kit deal with Nike.

The American sportswear manufacturer will replace Umbro as United's kit-makers
from July 2002 in a 13-year deal worth pounds 302.9 million. However,
Shareholders United are worried United may be in breach of their own charter
because of allegations that Nike use child labour.

In a letter to chief executive Peter Kenyon earlier this week, vice-chairman
Michael Crick, wrote: "Article 1.6 of the new club charter says, 'Manchester
United plc opposes the exploitation of child labour. No orders will be placed
from suppliers employing child labour under the age allowed in the country
concerned'. Shareholders United fully support this."

United's group marketing director, Peter Draper, tried to allay these fears, but
Shareholders United are yet to be convinced. The group also fear Nike may have
too much influence on United and may pressurise the club into representing the
company in tournaments around the world.

Spokesman Oliver Houston pointed out Nike's relationship with the Brazilian FA
was being examined by the Brazilian government. He said: "This is not just about
the allegations of child labour; we're concerned that commercial pressure will
be put on United."
[PS]Sport: [ES]

Soccer:

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 Telegraph Group Limited


                             258 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                      March 17, 2000, Friday, Home Edition

EARNINGS;
 DAILY INVESTING REPORT

BYLINE: Staff reports and news services

SOURCE: CONSTITUTION

SECTION: Business; Pg. 4F

LENGTH: 353 words

NATIONAL: Nike

The world's largest maker of athletic shoes said fiscal third-quarter profit
rose 17 percent, led by sales gains in the United States and Asia.

Net income rose to $ 145.3 million, or 52 cents a share, from $ 124.2 million,
or 44 cents, a year earlier. Sales for the quarter ended Feb. 29 fell less than
1 percent to $ 2.16 billion.

Nike warned last month that retailers' plans to close hundreds of sporting goods
stores in the United States --- where the company gets half its business ---
will hurt earnings this fiscal year and next. Its shares have fallen 36 percent
this year.

Worldwide orders for future deliveries rose 4 percent. Futures orders gauge
demand for Nike's shoes six months ahead of time and account for as much as 85
percent of Nike's sales, analysts said.

Nike's results beat the 50-cent average estimate of analysts polled by First
Call/Thomson Financial.


OUTLOOK: Lodgian

The Atlanta-based hotel operator warned for a second time in as many months that
its fourth-quarter loss will be greater than expected as it faces charges of up
to $ 75 million for fiscal year 1999.

Lodgian said it expects to report a fourth-quarter loss ''substantially
greater'' than the 12 cents to 14 cents a share loss estimated in January, as a
result of the charges.

The company previously forecast a loss because of lower-than-expected sales in
November and December.

The company was expected to have a loss of 13 cents, the average estimate of
three analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. It had a loss of 3
cents a share a year ago.

The company said 1999 year-end results will include charges related to hotels
the company is planning to sell, a valuation to account for goodwill, a
provision for items related to litigation and other items, such as professional
fees.

Lodgian said progress is being made in its plan to seek strategic alternatives
for the company. An asset sale to pay off debt or a sale of the company are
possibilities.

The company made the announcement after the market close Thursday. Shares closed
down 6 1/4 cents at $ 3.62 1/2.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic
GEORGIA
Optio Software (OPTO)
4th quarter ended Jan. 31
.... ............ 2000..............1999
Revenue....$ 9.6 million......$ 6.5 million
Net income... $ 682,000....... ($ 248,000)
Net/share..... 3 cents..........(2 cents)
12 months revenue
..........$ 32.8 million... $ 19.5 million
Net income.. $ 2 million..........$ 350,000
Net/share......10 cents......... 2 cents
Parentheses indicate loss.

SCORECARD
Quarterly earnings per share

Better than expected
..........................Net.... .......First Call
..................... income..................mean
..... ............. (or loss)........... estimate
Adobe Systems........47 cents (1)..........43 cents
Alloy Online........(28 cents) (1)........(30 cents)
 ASM Lithography....... $ 1.69 (1)........... $ 1.67
Audiovox........... 25 cents..............22 cents
Barnes & Noble..........$ 1.27 (1)...........  $ 1.25
Blyth Ind............57 cents..............56 cents
Cost Plus...... .....82 cents..............80 cents
Elder-Beerman........76 cents (1)....... ..75 cents
Emisphere Tech......(63 cents)............. ($ 1.02)
Hibbett Sprt Gds... 41 cents..............40 cents
Merix................24 cents... ..........19 cents
Nike............... 52 cents..............50 cents
 Paychex..............20 cents.............19 cents
Schleichr & Schvell..11 cents............. 6 cents
Tektronix............30 cents (1)..........23 cents
Texas Industries... 64 cents..............45 cents
Urban Outfitters.. .. 31 cents..............30 cents

On target
Cintas............. 29 cents
Horizon Health..... 27 cents
Jabil Corp...........37 cents
RDO Equip A....... (13 cents)

Below expectations
IDT Corp..............4 cents (1)......... 6 cents
RailAmerica..........17 cents (1)..........23 cents
Parentheses indicate loss.
....(1) From continuing operations

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution


                             259 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                      January 7, 2000 Friday Final Edition

Nike probes claim jerseys poisoned

SOURCE: The Edmonton Journal

SECTION: World; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 110 words

DATELINE: Berlin

Nike said Thursday it is investigating charges that its jerseys for a popular
German soccer club are laced with a toxic anti-bacterial chemical. German
department stores weren't waiting and were pulling the shirts off shelves.

The action followed a German television report that the yellow-and-black jerseys
contained tributyltin, a heavy-metal compound used in anti-barnacle paint for
ships.

Also used to kill bacteria and quell the smell of sweat, TBT would seem an ideal
additive for sports shirts. But British and Dutch tests have shown the substance
to cause mutations in marine snails. The World Wildlife Fund is calling for a
global ban on it.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News; Brief

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             260 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 11, 2000, Thursday

NIKE AIMS TO CORNER THE MARKET IN HI-TECH DEVICES FOR THE E-ATHLETE

BYLINE: Bill Mcintosh

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 315 words


EVERYBODY ELSE is doing it and now Nike is doing it too: going digital, that is.

From July, the sportswear company will offer a new line of sports-focused
electronic accessories. Among the products being developed in Nike's"Techlab",
are a digital audio player, a hi-tech walkie talkie, a portable heart- rate
monitor and a watch for Alpine sports enthusiasts that features a compass and
altimeter.

Clare Hamill, vice-president of Nike's equipment business said: "Athletes are
demanding more information. Our mission is simple: to lead the convergence of
sport and technology."

Symbolic of Nike's new departure is its portable sport audio (PSA) player based
on MP-3 technology. With research showing nearly two-thirds of people who buy
portable music players using them during workouts and other leisure pursuits,
Nike believes it makes sense to offer a product that, unlike portable CD
players, has no moving parts.

The PSA is built around a 64-megabyte chip that holds up to 120 minutes of
digital music files. They can be downloaded from the internet or converted from
CDs and because MP-3 is chip-, not disc-based, it is power efficient, light and
can't skip. Unlike Diamond's popular Rio model, however, the Nike product will
be oval in shape, allowing it to fit into a pocket or be worn on the body.

For snow-boarders and other Alpine sport enthusiasts, Nike have the Ascent
Compass, a wrist piece that combines altitude, weather, thermometer and
navigation functions.

For joggers, the Oregon-based company will update its Triax ergonomic running
watch with a new 100 model that offers heart rate information, a full
chronograph and lap timing. Although Nike wouldn't provide sales projections for
the digital products, the company hopes to match the success of the original
Triax watch, which has sold around 2.5 million units since its launch in 1997.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd


                             261 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                October 21, 2000

Shirt pulling on edge of Umbro penalty area

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 373 words



MEGA-RICH Manchester United may be heading towards a contentious fixture in the
law courts over revelations that it has signed a multi-million pound kit deal
with US leisure giant Nike.  United's current deal with Cheadle-based Umbro
expires at the end of next season. But since news of the Nike link-up leaked
out, Umbro has been weighing up the potential cost in terms of lost sales in
replica shirts.

No-one was saying anything publicly this week, either at Old Trafford or at
Umbro's headquarters.  Within Umbro's own walls, however, executives are
reportedly seething that the Nike deal has become public knowldge and it is
believed they have consulted legal advisers.

United confirmed in a short statement to the Stock Exchange last month that it
was in negotiations with a major sportswear manufacturer.'' Further revelations
were expected two weeks ago with the club's annual financial results. Nike,
however, reportedly insisted on trying to keep the lid on the news as it was not
then ready to complete.

Speculation has valued the United-Nike tie-up at as much as GBP 20m a year over
15 years.  It was a week of glum news from the High Street. Arcadia, the
troubled clothing retailer announced it was closing 55 stores - on top of the
400 announced in April.

Arcadia made a loss of GBP 8.5m on sales of GBP 1.995bn after an exceptional
charge of GBP 144m associated with the shake-up. Last year, the chain's profits
were GBP 46.7m. Menswear was particularly badly affected. Chief executive John
Hoerner, however, said he was heartened by the start Arcadia had made to the
current year with like-for-like sales up 4.8 per cent in the first seven weeks
of the first half.  Glum news, too, for Debenhams. The department store group
reported a GBP 9m slump in full-year profits. But finance director Matthew
Roberts insisted he was more than satisfied with the performance in the light of
toughening conditions on the nation's high streets. Its Trafford Centre store
had performed particularly well.

Increased spending on the Internet, home shopping and advertising accounted for
more than GBP 11m of Debenhams' budget.  We are pleased with our performance,''
said Mr Roberts.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Champions' choice . . . United players wearing Umbro shirts - but for
how long?

                     Copyright 2000 Manchester Evening News


                             262 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 3, 2000 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CARTER, SWOOPES LEAD U.S. SQUADS CONSUMER GROUPS PLAN NIKE PROTEST

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 549 words


Vince Carter and Sheryl Swoopes led the way as the U.S. Olympic men's and
women's basketball teams outclassed their opponents Saturday in Honolulu.

The men were never really in danger of being outscored, and Carter kept them
from being outperformed.

Carter unleashed a series of highlight-reel dunks in the second half to answer
an array of spectacular plays by a team of collegians as the Olympians beat the
U.S. Select Team 111-74, winning their second exhibition team.

And fresh off helping the Houston Comets win their fourth straight WNBA title,
Swoopes joined the U.S. women's team for its game against Brazil and led the
Americans to a 75-53 victory.

Swoopes, the WNBA's regular-season MVP, had 18 points and six rebounds. Lisa
Leslie added 15 points and Yolanda Griffith 13 in the tuneup game for the Sydney
Games.

The United States trailed early but turned to a tight man-to-man defense in the
second half and pulled away.

OLYMPICS:

Consumer groups plan to protest against Nike before the Sydney Games, accusing
the company of breaching labor standards. On Monday, anti-Nike group NikeWatch
plans to launch a report into workplace practices at Nike's Indonesian
factories, in which the group says workers are earning as little as 40 cents an
hour to make Nike products. NikeWatch is planning events in Sydney, Melbourne,
Perth and Adelaide and a mock Olympic opening ceremony in the days before the
official event. . . . Chinese race walker Liu Yunfeng has been kicked off the
Olympic team after failing a drug test, the China Daily newspaper in Beijing
reported.

MOTOR SPORTS:

Dario Franchitti set a track record on the way to earning the pole position for
the Vancouver Molson Indy, part of the CART FedEx Series. He covered the
1.781-mile, 12-turn temporary street circuit in 1 minute, 0.404 seconds, a speed
of 106.144 mph. . . . Defending champion Cory McClenathan stayed atop Top Fuel
qualifying for the 46th U.S. Nationals, drag racing's most prestigious event. No
one bettered the quarter-mile run of 4.655 seconds at a top speed of 317.57 mph
that McClenathan posted Friday. Shirley Muldowney, making a return to NHRA
competition at this event, is qualified 14th with a 4.779 at 306.53.

SOCCER:

Rejuvenated Germany, with a goal from 20-year-old Sebastian Deisler, beat
visiting Greece 2-0 on the first big day of European qualifying for the 2002
World Cup. Poland also found a new talent in a 3-1 win at Ukraine as
Nigerian-born Emmanuel Olisadebe scored twice in Kiev to disappoint a crowd of
50,000. In one of the day's biggest upsets, Norway, which reached the second
round of the World Cup two years ago, was held to a scoreless tie at home
against lightly regarded Armenia. In an exhibition game, England played a 1-1
tie at France as Michael Owen scored in the 85th minute in Saint-Denis, France.

BOXING:

Germany's Sven Ottke outpointed American Charles Brewer to retain his IBF super
middleweight title in Magdeburg, Germany.

VOLLEYBALL:

The University of Minnesota defeated Cal 15-6, 15-6, 15-5 at the Silver
Legacy/Ray Wersching Invitational in Reno. Candace McNamee led the Bears with 12
kills and 15 assists.

HOCKEY:

Colorado Avalanche Coach Bob Hartley has agreed to a one-year contract extension
through the 2001-2002 season.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SPORTS DIGEST

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Carter
[000903 SP 2C]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             263 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            April 6, 2000, Thursday

NIKE RUNS INTO $10M SUIT FROM INJURED DOCTOR

BYLINE: DEVLIN BARRETT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 024

LENGTH: 152 words


A Manhattan doctor who tripped and fell while jogging filed a $10 million suit
against Nike yesterday, saying her sneakers were so badly designed, they caused
the spill.

Dr. Deborah Faryniarz damaged a ligament in her wrist in the accident, which has
left her career as an orthopedic surgeon in jeopardy, the suit in Manhattan
federal court says.

She was running on the East Side in a pair of Nike Certitude cross-trainers last
April when a lace from her right sneaker hooked on a back leather tab on her
left sneaker, the suit says.

"She tripped, caught herself, and injured her right wrist," said her lawyer,
James Kreindler. "She didn't trip on her shoelaces -- her sneakers had a defect
that caused her to trip."

Kreindler said the company eventually changed the unsafe sneaker's tabs, making
them of soft plastic less likely to snag a lace.

Nike officials could not be reached for comment.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                             264 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                              May 9, 2000, Tuesday

WHO'S NEWS

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 6

LENGTH: 21 words


Nike Inc says chairman and CEO Philip Knight will assume the additional titles
of president and chief operating officer (S)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             266 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 8, 2000

Rangers' shirt tests

BYLINE: William Tinning

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 187 words


TESTS were carried out yesterday on Rangers football strips after it was claimed
similar shirts supplied by sports giant Nike could contain a harmful toxic
substance, writes William Tinning.

The sports goods manufacturer yesterday insisted there was no evidence that some
of its British-made football shirts contained a chemical used on the bottom of
sea vessels, which is also used to kill bacteria and quell the stench of
excessive sweating.

The claim was made by a German television show which commissioned laboratory
tests on shirts supplied to Borussia Dortmund.

The show claimed to have found traces of Tributyltin (TBT), which is said to
cause mutations among sea creatures. It is also thought high levels of TBT in
humans can cause neurological problems and damage the immune system and liver.

The Ibrox club has sold 250,000 replica Nike strips since last July - 72,000
through its own outlets. Nike also makes shirts for Arsenal.

A Nike spokesman yesterday said the Borussia Dortmund shirts were made by sub
-contractors in Britain and strips for Rangers and Arsenal were made elsewhere.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                             269 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                             May 4, 2000, Thursday

Tiger shows claws with no to Nike

SOURCE: AP

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 287 words


TIGER Woods joined a two- day-old strike by TV and radio commercial actors when
he refused to film an ad for Nike.

The world's top golfer had been scheduled to shoot a Nike commercial at
Islesworth Country Club, his home course near Orlando, Florida. But he decided
not to do it.

"There is a strike going on and we're abiding by it," said his agent, Mark
Steinberg.

Woods's decision was greeted enthusiastically by the Screen Actors Guild, which
authorised the strike along with the American Federation of Television and Radio
Artists. About 135,000 actors are represented by the unions.

"We deeply appreciate the support of this international superstar," SAG
spokesman Greg Krizman said.

Woods's deal with Nike was being renegotiated and could pay him a reported
$US80-90 million over five years. The golfer's TV commercials, including one in
which he bounces a golf ball off a club head, have been eye-catching.

Union membership is mandatory for anyone who appears in more than one
commercial, athletes included. The unions have vowed to picket film shoots
proceeding with non-union actors or guild members not honouring the strike.

The strike centres on the pay structure for commercials. Actors get a minimum of
about $478 for a day's work and also get "pay-per-play" residuals of roughly $50
to $120 each time a spot airs on network television.

When it comes to cable TV commercials, however, performers receive only a flat
fee of $1000 or less for each 13-week, unlimited run.

With two-thirds of all TV ads now being made for cable, actors are demanding
pay-per-play be extended to cable as well. But advertisers want to extend the
flat fee from cable to the networks.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             270 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                   August 30, 2000 Wednesday Final C Edition

Carter denies Internet report he has agreed to join Nike

SOURCE: Associated Press; Canadian Press

SECTION: Sports; Pg. A49

LENGTH: 421 words

DATELINE: LAHAINA, Hawaii

LAHAINA, Hawaii -- Vince Carter denied an Internet report Tuesday that he has
reached agreement with Nike on a six-year, $30 million ($44.5 million Cdn)
endorsement contract.

"There's no deal. Everybody thinks they know everything that's going on with me.
I'm tired of it, really," Carter said at the U.S. Olympic basketball team
training camp.

"I just got out of a Puma suit, so how can I have a deal ready?

"Everybody's jumping the gun."

The Toronto Raptors forward broke his contract with Puma last season, and an
arbitrator recently ruled that Carter owes the company $13.5 million, plus $1
million in legal fees. The Web site HoopsTV.com reported that Carter's deal with
Nike was agreed to, but a lawyer for Puma also disputed that.

"There isn't anything pending," said the lawyer, Norman Oberstein.

"We're just trying to work things out, and hopefully we will."

Talks are progressing "satisfactorily," Oberstein of the Los Angeles law firm
Oberstein, Kibre and Horowitz told the Canadian Press.

Sales have slumped in recent years for Nike, the king of shoe marketing, and its
stock prices have fallen about 29 per cent over the past 12 months.

Signing Carter, the NBA slam dunk contest champ, would be a major coup for Nike,
giving the shoe giant perhaps the NBA's most popular and dominant player to
market its products since six-time champion Michael Jordan.

Quoting anonymous sources, the Internet report said between $18 and $20 million
of the $30 million will go to Puma to free Carter from his previous shoe
contract.

Oberstein said Carter would need permission from Puma to negotiate with Nike.

When asked if Puma had granted him that permission, he refused to comment,
saying only that any agreement would be announced promptly.

The report said the three sides were ironing out the final details of the deal,
with Puma demanding a cut of royalties generated by Carter's future with Nike
shoes.

Nike spokesman Eric Oberman refused to say whether Nike has been negotiating
with Carter.

"We don't comment on rumours or speculation and we have absolutely nothing to
announce at this point," Oberman said in a telephone interview from Portland,
Ore.

Carter's agent, IMG's Mark Steinberg was travelling and unavailable for comment.

HoopsTV.com is a 24-hour basketball news and entertainment Web site.

Carter is in Hawaii training with the U.S. basketball team, the so-called Dream
Team, for the Sydney, Australia, Summer Games which begin Sept. 15.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: (Vince) Carter, Leaving Puma

TYPE: Sports

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             271 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  Korea Times

                            October 2, 2000, Monday

Gov't to Replace Nike Missiles With New SAMs

LENGTH: 139 words


   The government is planning to replace its stock of Nike Hercules
surface-to-air missiles, which, due to their advanced age and tendency to
misfire, have become a liability.

The Defense Ministry has reflected costs in replacing the missiles in defense
budget and will decide on the new type of SAM by June next year,'' said an
official at the National Assembly Defense Committee.

The type of missile the ministry is considering introducing is the U.S.-made
PAC-3, the newest version of the Patriot missile, or the Russian-made S-300, the
official said.

The official explained the need for a new missile.  Though inter-Korean
cooperation and reconciliation have been taking shape on the Korean peninsula, a
supply of dependable surface-to-air missiles is necessary for failsafe national
defense,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 05, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                          Copyright 2000 Hankook Ilbo


                             272 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                       February 9, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL

Nike shares fall to year low on lower earnings warning

SECTION: Business; D2

LENGTH: 98 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore.


BEAVERTON, Ore. -- Shares of Nike fell nearly 19 per cent Tuesday after the
athletic shoe maker said it will not meet earnings expectations for fiscal 2000.

In a statement, Nike said it still expects its earnings per share to grow 20 per
cent despite a shakeout in the U.S. retail industry, but profit per share could
fall below the current estimates of $2.08 by Wall Street analysts. A 20-per-cent
increase would mean earnings of about $1. 99 a share.

Investors sent the stock down $8.37 to $36.87 US -- a 52-week low -- on the New
York Stock Exchange.


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             273 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                             May 4, 2000, Thursday

Tiger's strike delays shoot

BYLINE: CHRISTINE JACKMAN

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 273 words


TIGER Woods threw a potential $150 million contract into jeopardy yesterday by
choosing to join the ranks of thousands of striking minor-league actors instead
of shooting a Nike commercial.

Nike was due to shoot the latest ad in a popular series starring the golfing
prodigy when Woods announced he was supporting the Screen Actors Guild's
campaign to get better pay for commercials.

"There is a strike going on and we're abiding by it," his agent, Mark Steinberg,
said in a brief statement.

Woods' sponsorship deal with Nike is being renegotiated, with industry
commentators predicting he could easily earn up to $150 million over five years
under the new contract.

The extraordinary popularity of his ads, particularly one in which he expertly
bounces a golf ball off a club head, ensures Nike will probably not complain too
loudly about Woods' no-show at the scheduled shoot at Islesworth Country Club,
his home course near Orlando, Florida.

But the company was clearly concerned the ad, which it had hoped to release on
June 15 for the start of the US Open, would not be finished in time.

Nike spokesman Mike Kelly said it was unclear when Woods would be available.

"The last I heard it was to be rescheduled," Mr Kelly said.

"Tiger's schedule is pretty hectic so it's hard to say. It may be a couple of
months, it may be a couple of weeks."

Woods' move ensured the strike, which involves 135,000 actors but so far has
attracted limited attention, was thrown into the headlines.

"We deeply appreciate the support of this international superstar," Screen
Actors Guild spokesman Greg Krizman said.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             274 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 6, 2000, Wednesday

FOOTBALL: FERGUSON IS TEMPTED BY ROLE AT NIKE

BYLINE: Alan Nixon

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 501 words


ALEX FERGUSON may turn his back on Manchester United when his contract expires
in two years time and join forces with the sportswear manufacturer, Nike, who is
head-hunting him to to become its football ambassador.

Talks between the United manager and the United States-based company are at an
advanced stage and Ferguson may sign a lucrative deal shortly. "I've got a lot
of offers already," Ferguson said. "One offer I've got is really staggering. It
would be a four-year contract for a huge amount of money and would involve a lot
of travelling.

"I have to ask myself how much I want to do once I retire. I do want to protect
some time, to be able to travel and so on. The way it is looking at the moment,
I'm going to have to refuse a lot of people and just take on enough to keep me
active and happy."

Ferguson has been targeted by the firm as an ideal man to front its push for top
football contracts with clubs and players worldwide. The salary being discussed
is around pounds 1m a year for four years.

Nike may even be willing to offer Ferguson the job on a part-time basis, leaving
him to keep other interests in football and horse racing. However, it would be
too demanding a job to allow Ferguson to work at United in a significant
capacity and will be the end of his association with the club if Nike is
successful in its move.

Ferguson is intent on retiring from Old Trafford when his present contract
expires. Despite United's new chief executive, Peter Kenyon, claiming that he
would like him to stay, talks with Nike are ongoing and progressing well.
Ferguson's affairs are being handled by a Manchester-based agency and he is
extremely interested in the job.

Nike already has several top footballers and clubs on its payroll. But in a
competitive market it wants to stay ahead. With United's fame and his own
reputation, Ferguson could open doors for Nike by finding the best players and
talking to clubs about signing up.

Ironically, United's kit is manufactured by Nike's rivals, Umbro, a deal that
Nike has coveted for years. Now, however, the fight is between United and Nike
for Ferguson's services - and at present the sportswear company is favourite.

Ferguson would like to remain involved with United while pursuing other
interests, such as his work with Uefa. "I'd like to stay involved. I'll
certainly keep going to matches and I'll carry on living in the area," he said.
"Some people ask if I'm looking forward to being able to move back up to
Scotland. 'You must be joking' I have to tell them - it is too bloody cold up
there! I'll certainly carry on with the Uefa working party I'm on."

Ferguson repeated his intention to stand down as manager and he feels United may
change the coaching set-up when he goes. "They'll probably change it and
probably have a first-team coach," he said. "I thought it was important to
announce well in advance the point at which I would stop doing the manager's job
and to allow the club to look ahead."

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd


                             275 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       January 7, 2000, Friday Edition 2

Nike kits in health scare

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 109 words


   Sports goods manufacturer Nike last night called on Britons not to panic
after reports some of its football shirts were laced with a toxic chemical.

Fears were raised over the safety of the Nike-made shirts of German side
Borussia Dortmund after a German TV show commissioned lab tests on the kit.

The TV show claims the shirts contain a chemical which is used in anti-barnacle
paint on ships and also used to kill bacteria and quell the stench of sweating.

Tributyltin in humans is believed to cause neurological problems, damage the
immune system and harm the liver.

Borussia Dortmund still plans to wear the shirts on Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd


                             276 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Nike Web Site Is Taken Over By Protesters

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 381 words


Protesters took control of the Nike Web site yesterday and redirected visitors
to a site urging organizations to gather at and disrupt a world economic summit
meeting planned for later this year in Australia.

Nike, the footwear company, said the action made its site inaccessible for up to
7 hours to some visitors starting at 10 a.m. Eastern time yesterday -- and the
company said it was working with law enforcement officials to determine the
group responsible for the attack.

"We don't think it'll be too hard to find out who did it," said Corby Casler, a
company spokeswoman, adding that it is unclear whether the company or government
would be able to take any action in response to the attack. "Knowing who did it
and being able to prove it are two different things."

Ms. Casler said that the Web site that was attacked is the main e-commerce site
for Nike, but that it was too soon to tell whether the company lost revenue,
and, if so, how much.

Nike, though it has come under attack for its treatment of workers at overseas
factories, which critics say are sweatshops, is not the first to have its Web
site redirected or defaced by so-called hacktivists. Groups opposing a variety
of corporate and government activities have increasingly taken to cyberspace to
put their own messages in place of an institution's Web site.

In this case, the Nike site was redirected to a site of an organization called
S11 Alliance, based in Australia. On the site, the group is described as a
network of groups and individuals concerned about "the growth of corporate power
and the direction of globalization." .

It is unclear if S11 was involved in the actual redirection. E-mail inquiries
sent to S11 were not returned.

The organization's Web site calls for protesters to use nonviolent means to shut
down the World Economic Forum 2000, a gathering of economists, academicians,
executives and government officials, to be held on Sept. 11-13 in Melbourne,
Australia.

The site does not specify particular grievances against Nike, except to include
it on a list of World Economic Forum participants, along with companies like
Exxon Mobil, Honeywell, McDonald's, Phillip-Morris and Amazon.com.

"Nike is used to dealing with this type of thing," Ms. Casler said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             277 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Black Nike T-shirt led to youths' arrest

                                October 20, 2000


A BLACK Nike T-shirt gave police the vital clue in tracking down three youths
suspected of stealing 25 vehicles for joyrides over the last few months.

One of the youths, an 18-year-old, had provided the investigation team with
valuable video footage.

Senior staff sergeant Kumar Vellasamy, one of the team members, said: "The
suspect was caught on closed-circuit security camera wearing the T-shirt."

The youth was also spotted wearing the same T-shirt at various crime scenes in
the Jurong area and when loitering in carparks with his accomplices, aged 21 and
22.

All three are believed to have started their crime spree from July.

The police said they had used duplicate keys to break into the vehicles --
mainly old cars and vans -- at public carparks in Jurong, Boon Lay and Chua Chu
Kang housing estates.

They took the vehicles for joyrides. If a stolen car ran out of petrol, they
would abandon it and steal another one.

But it was the end of the road for them on Wednesday, when they were rounded up.

A team of 11 officers from the Jurong Police Division arrested them at 11 am
near a Jurong West block of flats.

The stolen vehicles have all been recovered by the police.

The police team's investigations led them to a petrol kiosk in Jurong West, one
at which nearby residents had informed them was frequented by the three youths.

And it was at the kiosk that police officers found the video footage of the
18-year-old culprit.


SECTION: Home; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 245 words

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A suspect was caught wearing the black Nike T-shirt on closed-circuit
security camera.

                Copyright 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


                             278 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                           February 14, 2000, Monday

SMALLER COMPANIES AND EXTREME SPORTS CONQUER THE SPORTING-GOODS INDUSTRY

SECTION: Section B; Page 13B, Column 2

LENGTH: 54 words


The sporting-goods industry, once dominated by Nike Inc and its stable of
athlete superstars, is being taken over by dozens of smaller companies endorsed
by the likes of skateboarders, stunt bike riders and rock stars; the shift is
evident at the Super Show in Atlanta, the nation's biggest sporting-goods trade
show (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             280 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                         September 20, 2000, Wednesday

Horror Nike ad dropped

SOURCE: REUTERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 182 words


NBC has dropped a commercial for Nike featuring a female Olympic runner being
pursued by a chainsaw-wielding man.

A spokesman said the ad, which was aired in the US over the weekend as NBC
kicked off its coverage of the Olympics, had been pulled because of complaints.

"We were fully prepared to react quickly", said spokesman Rick Gitter.

NBC had accepted the ad "with some trepidation" and "subject to significant
adverse audience reaction", he said.

The spot was part of a campaign with the theme "Why Sport?" promoting Nike's
sponsorship of the Games.

In a spoof of horror movies, the commercial featured US Olympic runner Suzy
Hamilton being chased by a masked man through a house and then into dark woods.

She puts on a burst of speed and leaves the man panting in the dust.

As he drops his weapon, the words appear on the screen: "Why sport? Because
you'll live longer".

There was no immediate comment from Nike, but a spokeswoman for the ad agency
told the New York Times that although it had expected complaints, it was
unfortunate NBC had dropped the ads.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             281 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             February 09, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

BRIEFLY

SECTION: BUSINESS; BRIEFLY; EARNINGS; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 1012 words



BUY.COM DOUBLES ON FIRST DAY: Buy.com Inc. shares almost doubled in its first
day of trading after it raised $ 182-million. Shares in Buy.com, whose Web sites
sell everything from computers to golf clubs, sold at $ 13 in the IPO. Its
shares closed at $ 25.12 1/2. Buy.com sold the 14-million shares, or 11 percent
of the company, to raise money to cover losses incurred while it expands. The
company's euphoria was tempered when it was hit by what has become a rash of
Internet vandal attacks. Buy.com said a deluge of false traffic blocked the
site's use, similar to a three-hour crash of Yahoo Inc.'s site Monday.
Electronic vandals also disrupted the Web sites of eBay and Amazon.com with
similar assaults.

REUTERS MOVES TOWARD INTERNET: Reuters Group said it plans to spend $
802-million to transform the 150-year-old news organization into an Internet
company that delivers instant financial data to consumers as well as financial
institutions worldwide. Reuters said it plans over the next four years to move
its services to the Internet from its current satellite delivery system,
targeting the estimated 40-million individuals who now view Reuters information
on Web sites served by the company. The London-based company also said its 1999
earnings rose 9 percent, but it said its growth was hampered in part by Y2K
computer concerns.

STORE CLOSINGS TO HURT NIKE: Nike Inc. warned that retailers' plans to close
hundreds of sporting goods stores will hurt the athletic shoemaker's earnings
this fiscal year and next. Sales fell 8.1 percent last year as people switched
to dressier styles and stores cut prices to clear out Nike's surplus sneakers
and clothes. Venator Group Inc. last month said it plans to close about 150 Foot
Locker, Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker and Champs sporting goods stores,
while Just For Feet Inc. said in October it would close about half the chain's
85 stores. Nike shares dropped $ 8.56 1/4, or 19 percent, to $ 36.68 3/4.

EBAY, GO.COM FORM PARTNERSHIP: EBay Inc., the largest Internet auctioneer, and
Walt Disney Co.'s Go.com Internet network said they are working together to
create auction areas on Disney's Web sites. Under the four-year agreement, eBay
will become the online auction house for all of Disney's Internet properties,
including the Go Network. The two companies will create auction sites to sell
Disney products, including items from Walt Disney Studios and its ESPN and ABC
networks. Financial terms weren't disclosed.

LARGO COMPANY GETS STAKE IN

ONLINE VENTURE: Largo-based Cox Target Media has acquired a 32 percent stake in
BrightStreet.com, a Mountain View, Calif., startup backed by venture capital.
The price was not disclosed. BrightStreet has developed an Internet site that
makes promotional offers including coupons, free samples and rebates while
keeping a running tabulation of the consumers who request them. Cox, a unit of
Atlanta-based Cox Enterprises, owns the Val-Pak and Carol Wright direct mail
coupon networks. Its current Web site offers only electronic coupons.

TREASURY AUCTION: The Treasury Department on Tuesday sold $ 12-billion of 4
3/4-year notes at a yield of 6.741 percent. Tenders totaled $ 22.8-billion. At
the Nov. 9 auction, the notes yielded 5.888 percent.

Earnings

Reptron Electronics Inc.

The Tampa electronics manufacturer and distributor narrowed its loss in the
fourth quarter ended Dec. 31 after sales increased 33 percent. Year-end results
include a onetime gain of $ 12.8-million from the company's bond repurchase
program.

                   4thQtr      Year Ago

Revenue                $ 107.2-mil  $ 80.8-mil

Net Income             -$ 563,000   -$ 9.2-mil

Per Share              -9 cents    -$ 1.50

                   Year        Year Ago

Revenue                $ 359.2-mil  $ 302.8-mil

Net Income             $ 4.8-mil    -$ 13.1-mil

Per Share              78 cents    -$ 2.15

Lincare Holdings Inc.

The Clearwater home oxygen company said revenues increased 19 percent for the
year ended Dec. 31 despite reductions in Medicare reimbursements.

                   4thQtr      Year Ago

Revenue                $ 152.4-mil  $ 130.3-mil

Net Income             $ 26.4-mil   $ 23.7-mil

Per Share              47 cents    40 cents

                   Year        Year Ago

Revenue                $ 581.8-mil  $ 487.4-mil

Net Income             $ 100.7-mil  $ 85.3-mil

Per Share              $ 1.74       $ 1.44

Aetna Inc.

The health insurer posted stronger-than-expected income for the quarter ended
Dec. 31, but the Hartford, Conn., company's stock slid nearly 18 percent after
it said it was having trouble controlling rising medical costs. Aetna shares
fell $ 9.87 1/2 to $ 45.87 1/2 as of 4:30 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange.

                   4thQtr      Year Ago

Revenue                $ 6.3-bil    $ 4.29-bil

Net Income             $ 134.5-mil  $ 231.8-mil

Per Share              92 cents    $ 1.50

                   Year        Year Ago

Revenue                $ 26.5-bil   $ 20.6-bil

Net Income             $ 716.9-mil  $ 848.1-mil

Per Share              $ 4.72       $ 5.41

Barnes & Noble.com

Sales in the quarter ended Dec. 31 more than tripled from a year ago, but its
losses widened as the Internet retailer spent heavily during the holiday season
to lure shoppers to its Web site.

                   4thQtr      Year Ago

Revenue                $ 82.13-mil  $ 25.88-mil

Net Income             -$ 38.36-mil -$ 31.35-mil

Per Share              -27 cents   -27 cents

                   Year        Year Ago

Revenue                $ 202.57-mil $ 61.83-mil

Net Income             -$ 102.4-mil -$ 83.15-mil

Per Share              -77 cents   -72 cents


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                             282 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 4, 2000, Saturday

FOOTBALL: NIKE DEAL NETS UNITED POUNDS 303M

BYLINE: Nick Harris

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 438 words


MANCHESTER UNITED enhanced their status as the world's biggest football club
last night by confirming the game's largest ever sponsorship package, a 13 -year
deal with the sportswear manufacturer, Nike, worth pounds 303m.

The "strategic alliance", which starts when United's current kit deal with Umbro
expires in August 2002, will make Nike the team's official sponsors and kit
supplier and will also give it the global rights to all United merchandise and
retail operations. According to a statement released to the stock exchange, Nike
will also become "the operator of Manchester United's global retail operations".
In practice this will involve Nike spreading the United brand around the world.

The deal could be even more lucrative to United, who will get half of Nike's net
profits generated from the licensing and retail operations, providing they stay
in the top half of the Premiership and play in Europe.

To put the deal into perspective, it works out at pounds 23.3m a year for
United. A statement from the club's plc said: "Manchester United intends to use
the proceeds for general corporate purposes". This is likely to include spending
on new players, wages and development of United's already extensive
international set-up.

The deal announced yesterday dwarfs the pounds 30m four-year shirt sponsorship
deal that United have with Vodafone - itself a record when it was signed - and
the only comparable arrangement is the sponsorship deal Nike have with the
Brazilian national side. A spokesman for United appeased fears that United -
like Brazil - would have to play an extensive programme of exhibition matches
for Nike. "United are likely to play some overseas games for commercial
reasons," he said, "but there is no contractual commitment to do so".

United and Nike will set up a subsidiary company to control the global
operation, each appointing half the directors. Nike will appoint the chairman,
who will have the casting vote, and the sportswear company will also have the
option to terminate the deal after six years if it should wish to do so.

Nike and United will also launch a grass-roots programme aimed at young players,
with the pounds 1m-a-year running costs funded by Nike.

The sponsorship announcement came on the day that United's manager, Sir Alex
Ferguson, said that he hoped his assistant, Steve McClaren, may succeed him at
Old Trafford. "Steve has been brilliant since he came here," Ferguson said. "He
has shown a willingness to learn. It is not my decision to make, but I would
have thought all the credentials were there for Steve to take the job."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd


                             284 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 16, 2000, Saturday

Tiger to swing for billion dollars

BYLINE: Ian Brodie in Washington

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 404 words


Tiger Woods will cap his record year on the golf course with a new endorsement
contract with Nike worth about Pounds 70million that may become the richest
individual marketing deal in sports history.

The five-year agreement takes effect next year when his existing Pounds
28million contract expires. With so many years of playing ahead of Woods, 24,
the new contract confirms the view of several American financial analysts that
he will become sport's first billion-dollar man.

Bob Wood, Nike's golf president, said yesterday that the size of Woods's
recompense could increase during the life of the contract because it has been
structured to pay him more as Nike's golf business expands. "The better we do,
the better he does," the executive explained, without going into details.

The contract could become more lucrative than any of those signed with Nike by
Michael Jordan, the retired star of the Chicago Bulls basketball team, Mr Wood
said.

Jordan, 37, now president of basketball operations for the Washington Wizards,
is still coining money from his endorsement deals with Nike, Gatorade and other
companies. He remains ahead of Woods. Fortune magazine puts his net worth at $
430million (Pounds 305million) compared with $ 150million (Pounds 105million)
for Woods. Even this year Jordan will be ahead in endorsement income, about
Pounds 50million to about Pounds 30million for Woods. But time is on Woods's
side; he could still be playing in 30 years.

Woods has won three successive major championships this year, the US Open, the
Open and the US PGA. He is the youngest player to conquer the Grand Slam (his
three wins this year and the US Masters he won in 1997) and has won nine
tournaments this year, the most on the USPGA tour since 1950. In advertising
parlance, he is a head-to-toe Nike man, wearing shoes, clothing, gloves and hats
all bearing the firm's swoosh logo. He has also switched to Nike balls, and
their market share is up from 1 per cent to nearly 4 per cent.

David Beckham is already a multimillionaire from playing and endorsements,
though not in the Tiger class. SFX Entertainments, which represents the
Manchester United and England player, would not discuss his income but analysts
estimate that he has earned about Pounds 2million from playing and nearly Pounds
10million from endorsements for Pepsi, Adidas, Brylcreem, publishing, videos,
games and clothing.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited


                             287 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 1, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Nike steps up to honor runner

BYLINE: Mike Dodd

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 274 words


Vernon James II never had the chance to fulfill his potential
as an athlete, but he shares one distinction with Michael Jordan
-- a Nike shoe in his honor.

James was one of the four members of the Prairie View A&M
track team who was killed Feb. 10 when their van rolled over as
they were en route to a meet in Pine Bluff, Ark.

His mother, Diana Brown of Suisun City, Calif., recently
received from Nike 13 pairs of track spikes, with "VJ II" embroidered
on the heel, to give to his teammates from Vallejo Senior High
School.

"I wanted to keep his memory alive," Brown says of the request.

James, 18, was a member of Prairie View's 4x400 relay team as
a freshman. He competed in football and track at Vallejo and received
a track scholarship to the Division I school.

His high school friends have cut a CD in his honor, with proceeds
going to a scholarship fund in his name set up by Vallejo High.
Brown hopes to form a foundation to perpetuate full scholarships
and is designing a cross-training shoe at Nike ID, a part of the
firm's Web site in which customers can design their own shoes.

"This is my way of getting through this," Brown says. "I'm
trying to keep busy doing positive things."

She says James was buried in his Vallejo track uniform and she
first approached Nike about a pair of shoes for the uniform.

Fred Herlitz of Nike's running sports marketing division
said the company felt the limited edition shoe for James' teammates
was an appropriate gesture to honor an elite athlete.

It won't threaten the popularity of Air Jordans, but it's a valued
item at Vallejo High.

LOAD-DATE: August 01, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP for USA TODAY; Brown: Holds shoes created in honor of
her son.

                      Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.


                             288 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 22, 2000

RONALDO'S COACH DENIES NIKE INTERFERERANCE

SECTION: Pg. 87

LENGTH: 259 words


FORMER Brazil coach Mario Zagallo has denied allegations that sportswear
manufacturer Nike forced star player Ronaldo to ignore medical advice and play
in the 1998 World Cup Final.

"I am no puppet," said Zagallo, who was testifying before a government
commission set up to investigate corruption in Brazilian football.

Ronaldo played in the final in Paris despite claiming he had suffered
convulsions only hours before the game, which France won 3-0. The team's
sponsor, Nike, has denied charges that it persuaded Ronaldo to play despite his
health problems.

Zagallo, who was sacked after the final and now coaches Rio de Janeiro club
Flamengo, told the commission that he had been ready to put Edmundo into the
team when Ronaldo arrived 45 minutes before the game, begging not to be dropped
and guaranteeing hit fitness.

"He told me he was in perfect physical condition," Zagallo said. "He gave me the
results of examinations taken by a French clinic, saying there was no problem. I
picked the team. There was never any interference from Nike or the Brazilian
Football Confederation. If there had been, I would have resigned."

He added, though, that on one occasion during the World Cup, the Brazil team had
been forced to drive around Paris after training session to attend and Nike
-sponsored event.

In the past year, Brazilian football has seen domestic chaos, poor results at
international level and a series of scandals, one allegedly involving Wan-derley
Luxemburgo, who was sacked as national coach in September.


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             289 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                     December 18, 2000 Monday Final Edition

Object of desire

SOURCE: The Province

BYLINE: Bet Gibson

SECTION: Hot!; Pg. A28 / FRONT

LENGTH: 53 words

How many people who buy Nike Shox, the company's jumpingest athletic shoe, will
actually run, hop or jump in them?

Doesn't matter. The $229.99 Nike Shox series promises perfect balance, and great
cushioning.

The idea was to give the foot the same cushion suspension as that of a car's
shock absorbers.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: $229.99 Nike Shox Series

TYPE: General

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             291 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 17, 2000, Wednesday

LATEST NIKE TRAINERS SPARK RIOT AS SHOPPERS DEMAND SILENCE

BYLINE: Ian Herbert

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 242 words


IT WAS not about race relations, deprivation or capitalism, but the riot still
managed to leave one policeman injured, eight people under arrest and a shopping
centre closed for the day.

The issue that exercised the people of Leeds so much was, in fact, squeaky
trainers.

A BBC TV's Watchdog programme had claimed pairs of the new pounds 100 Nike Air
Max 95, which uses air bubbles as a cushion, had failed to lose an initial
squeak, and left many viewers convinced they could exchange their shoes for a
silent pair.

Dozens of customers arrived at the Foot Locker store, in the St John's shopping
centre, on Friday clutching trainers - of all ages - and demanding new ones.
Staff refused to comply, tempers became frayed and the police were called.

By noon the shopping centre was closed. Police said yesterday that of the eight
people arrested, three - a boy of 15, a 20-year-old man and a woman in her
twenties - had been charged with public order offences and assault and a
19-year-old woman had been charged with public order offences.

Foot Locker Europe, based in Holland, said a small number of the trainers had a
manufacturing fault which had dislodged an air bubble, causing the squeaking.

"If people bring them back and it is found that the shoe is faulty we will
replace them, but it doesn't mean people can bring trainers which are four or
five years old," a spokeswoman said.

Leading article, Review, page 3

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nike Air Max: use air bubbles to cushion feet

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd


                             293 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 1, 2000, Sunday

NIKE RUNS INTO A STORM;
 SPORTSWEAR GIANT QUITS FACTORY IN CHILD LABOUR SCANDAL

BYLINE: Graham Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 551 words


SPORTSWEAR giant Nike has pulled out of a factory in Cambodia after being caught
up in a child labour scandal.

Children as young as 12 are said to have been working seven days a week for just
pounds 31 a month at the factory which manufactures clothes for Nike, who this
week offered Manchester United a world record-breaking pounds 300million
sponsorship deal.

The claims were made by investigators from the BBC's Panorama programme who
spent weeks filming undercover at the factory in Cambodia. They found at least
one underage child had falsified papers to get a job.

Alerted by Panorama, horrified Nike chiefs in Britain launched their own
investigation and discovered another underage child working there.

A spokeswoman for Nike told the Sunday Mirror: "We are painfully aware of the
situation at the June Factory in Cambodia. Panorama alerted us to the issues of
child labour and informed us that at least one underage worker had falsified
papers to gain employment at the factory.

"We immediately investigated, but as we have not seen the Panorama programme we
cannot verify their findings.

"We did find another incidence of child labour ourselves. For this reason we
decided to pull out of the factory because we do not tolerate child labour.

"The factory was already on probation because one of our audits discovered that
they had been using too much overtime which is against our code of conduct.
After reviewing the situation we have pulled out of the factory."

Nike has pledged to carry on paying wages to the children, who have been
expelled from the factory, as long as they stay at school.

A spokeswoman for the BBC told the Sunday Mirror: "In a world where consumers
increasingly demand that ethical business practice goes hand-in-hand with
profit, Nike - a hugely successful international brand - markets itself as a
company with a strict code of conduct."

Nike has previously been the target of demonstrations in the US over its
employment of Third World workers.

In 1998 the company banned all of its 5,000 sub-contractors worldwide from using
child labour amid public outcry.

Nike claims to enforce the Code of Conduct with rigorous ethical audits and has
already stopped contracts with 11 factories in four countries for failing to
comply. It recently signed up to the United Nations Global Compact which aims to
bring about "the effective abolition of child labour".

Nike has agreed to adopt US Occupational and Health Administration standards for
air quality inside factories, and to extend programmes to provide free education
classes by 2002.

Nike kits out some of the world's most famous and highly-paid sports stars,
including both the American and Australian Olympic squads and the Brazilian
football team.

Golf sensation Tiger Woods, 24, recently signed a new sponsorship contract with
the company worth pounds 70million. The five-year deal begins next year when his
current deal, worth pounds 28million, comes to an end. Industry experts reckon
it will help make him the first billion-dollar sportsman.

With more than 21,000 employees worldwide and a further 500,000 people in Third
World countries working for sub-contractors, the company has annual sales of
pounds 1.8billion and profits of over pounds 140million.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANGRY: Protesters in New York early this year; MARK OF ACHIEVEMENT:;
Nike's logo

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             294 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             March 3, 2000, Friday

NIKE'S 'SOLE INFLUENCE' TURNS UP AT ST. JOHN'S

BYLINE: Phil Mushnick

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 098

LENGTH: 1120 words


A BIG part of the story, one that shouldn't come as a shock, has gone
unreported. This on-going Erick Barkley/NCAA saga is rooted -- where else? -- in
the cut-throat, flesh-peddling, basketball-corrupting, child-abusing sneaker
business.

Maine Central Institute, where Barkley attended college (basketball) prep
school, is a noted Nike mill, a school whose basketball program is funded by
Nike. It serves as a Nike pipeline of young talent as they travel the
now-standardized path between sneaker company-owned and operated summer AAU
programs and sneaker company-owned and operated college basketball programs.

Nike, naturally, owns the hearts and minds of St. John's recruits and coaches.
And that places St. John's among the overwhelming majority of big-time
college-basketball programs that couldn't successfully compete without both the
payola and influence delivered by a sneaker company.

"Sole Influence" is the most recent book exposing the sneaker cartel's insidious
hold on basketball, starting at the junior high school level. A lot of good
previous exposes have done; a lot of good this one will do. Exposing corruption
and removing corruption are very different things.

"Sole Influence" authors Dan Wetzel and Don Yaeger identify Maine Central
Institute as a Nike talent depot that warehouses players -- the academically
deficient, those in need of stronger competition, those whose bodies could use
an extra year to mature -- before they're delivered to Nike colleges.

In the book, we read of a high school star, 6-foot-10 Wesley Wilson from
California, "choosing" Maine Central Institute over Winchendon prep school in
Massachusetts because Winchendon is a "an adidas school." MCI is "a Nike school"
and young Wilson belongs to Nike.

And the two most influential men in "amateur" basketball today are Nike's George
Raveling and adidas' Sonny Vaccaro because they've got hold of their companies'
checkbooks as the point men in service to what's serenely called "grass roots
programs."

(Raveling, in a sustained disgrace, also is employed by Fox Sports Net as a
college basketball commentator!)

Remember, if you want to know the real story in any sport these days, just
follow the money. And we're not talking about a few thousand dollars that is
alleged to have been paid illegally by an AAU/Nike team mentor to fund Barkley's
stay at Maine Central Institute prior to his stay at St. John's/Nike.

We're talking about millions of dollars pumped in annually by sneaker companies
in the name of creating a status-symbol frenzy on the street, purchasing high
school and college basketball programs and landing the next Michael Jordan while
thoroughly corrupting amateur organized basketball.

And that corrupt process begins the moment a mere child is identified by a
sneaker agent as a potential "PTPer, baby!"

i

GEORGE Steinbrenner is a remarkable man. Consider that he recognizes the latent
mental disease within Darryl Strawberry, but he couldn't identify the clear and
present kind in Howard Spira.

While it never made all the glowing obituaries attesting to his extraordinary
qualities as a team and civic leader, Derrick Thomas, at the age of 33, left
seven children by five women. And he was killed driving irresponsibly.

In advertisements heard this week over WFAN, Mike Francesa encouraged listeners
to get out to Aqueduct for tomorrow's Stymie Handicap. That's a good idea,
horseracing fans, especially since Aqueduct results normally aren't given over
WFAN.

According to a company press release, an off-shore, on-line gambling sports book
based in Venezuela paid off at 8-1 in its "Next NBA Player To Be Arrested"
proposition last week when Anthony Mason was pinched. (Heck, the best you could
do around here was 5-1). The same press release lists Ravens' LB Ray Lewis at
3-5 to be found guilty of murder.

FAN's Russ Salzberg has fully endorsed Mike Jarvis' since-recanted position that
the NCAA, in the Barkley case, has behaved like the Gestapo. "That's exactly
what it is: Gestapo tactics," Salzberg said Sunday. Salzberg should've done a
little research on the Gestapo -- maybe even spoken with a Holocaust survivor --
before making such a disgusting statement.

Highly regarded Paul Beeston, No. 2 in MLB behind Bud Selig, is the in-studio
guest on the thoughtful and revealing "Tim McCarver Show," Sunday at 5 p.m. on
MSG (repeated Thursday at 9:30 p.m.).

i

THE latest tumult over the premature departure of a network from a live event --
Saturday, CBS dumped New York and ACC country out of Michigan State-Indiana with
the game headed for OT in order to show the start of St. John's-Duke -- is one
of those 50-50 calls that no network can hope to get right.

But networks can do a far better job softening such blows for victimized
viewers.

In Saturday's case, CBS was able to delay, for a few minutes, the tip of
SJU-Duke. And, as CBS Sports VP Mike Aresco has stated, had CBS chosen to stick
with MSU-IU and that game had gone to a second OT, regional viewers might've
missed the entire first half of SJU-Duke or had a double OT removed from view.

But that's little consolation to those who had invested two hours in the MSU-IU
telecast, only to have it disappear at the start of OT.

While CBS, in this case, couldn't win, it would have diminished viewer angst by
doing more to keep the abandoned game under constant surveillance:

1) Provide steady score update graphics. 2) Provide a live insert -- even if
only for a few seconds -- of the abandoned game in order to show audiences that
you're staying on the case. 3) Most important, if the abandoned game is going
down to the wire, as the OT in MSU-IU did, get back to show the final 30-40
seconds, live.

If anyone gripes about losing a few seconds of first-half action to the final
moments in a tight game that had been removed from regional view after two
hours, then the viewer, and not the network, becomes the unreasonable party.

CBS should have shown those who favored the end of MSU-IU that it felt their
pain. They would have recognized that CBS was in a tough spot but the network
would do everything possible to make nice. This is what ESPN was able to do last
week when matches within its Match Play Championship golf coverage ran long.

Maybe a network has to lose a 30-second commercial spot, or two, in order to do
right by its audience, but it can be done.


LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: BOSS STEINBRENNER Unremarkable.  MIKE FRANCESA Unprofessional.  DERRICK
THOMAS Irresponsible.  RUSS SALZBERG Inexcusable.
BAD ODDS: When Anthony Mason was arrested last week, one offshore sports book
paid off bets, at 8-1 odds, that the Hornets star would be "next NBA player to
be arrested." AP

           Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                             296 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                             April 28, 2000, Friday

Nike cries foul over counterfeit clobber

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 112 words


Knockoff knockout: These Aussie fans of French tennis star Mary Pierce had
better watch out - Nike is on the awrpath against clothing impersonators.  Nike
and Adidas-Salomon have sued Wal-MartStores in the US, accusing the world's
largest retailer of selling T-shirts with counterfeit logos.  They are demanding
$US1 million ($1.7 million) for each faked style of T-shirt and join four other
big sportswear companies who have sued Wal-Mart for selling knock-offs in the
past two years.  Wa;-Mart denies its discoint Sam's Club stores are selling the
duds, saying: "We are in the business of selling authentic name brands."  Inset:
the real Mary Pierce

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             297 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                             April 28, 2000, Friday

Nike cries foul over counterfeit clobber

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 112 words


Knockoff knockout: These Aussie fans of French tennis star Mary Pierce had
better watch out - Nike is on the awrpath against clothing impersonators.  Nike
and Adidas-Salomon have sued Wal-MartStores in the US, accusing the world's
largest retailer of selling T-shirts with counterfeit logos.  They are demanding
$US1 million ($1.7 million) for each faked style of T-shirt and join four other
big sportswear companies who have sued Wal-Mart for selling knock-offs in the
past two years.  Wa;-Mart denies its discoint Sam's Club stores are selling the
duds, saying: "We are in the business of selling authentic name brands."  Inset:
the real Mary Pierce

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             300 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 4, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

When Nike Missiles Were Next Door

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 21; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 168 words


So, there were nuclear tips on the Nikes, and that fact was not made plain to
us. We are, I suppose, to be shocked and indignant.

As if.

As a boy in the 60's I was one of those who, from time to time with a school or
Scout group, visited the Nike site in Lloyd Harbor, which your writer notes was
not equipped with those warheads. That site was no more than a football toss or
two from Lloyd Harbor School, where we learned to go under desks and hold our
heads or line up in the hallway in the event of a nuclear holocaust.

The fact that we were ground zero in the event of an attack, and that the world
was nuclear, was not exactly unclear to us. And whether or not the missiles were
nuclear-equipped did not, in my mind at least, did not signify much.

It is of interest to me that the Nikes had nuclear warheads on them, to be sure.
But we all felt threatened in those days, I think, by the general threat of
nuclear war and our proximity to New York City.

GEORGE WALLACE
Huntington

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             301 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                     October 5, 2000 Thursday FINAL EDITION

LETTERS FROM OUR READERS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1154 words


Bullying Bud ad as scaryas Nike ad

I applaud Channel 4 for removing the ax-wielding Nike ad. However, I am just as
concerned about a Bud Lite ad I feel is even more insidious. I am referring to
the ad that depicts a marathon runner taking a man's Bud Lite during a race.

The man sets out after the runner, shoving people out of his way, even knocking
some of them to the ground. This ad disturbs me because it depicts the bullying
mentality that seems to be growing in our country; if I want something, I can do
anything to get it no matter how it hurts other people.

The Nike ad was a shocker. This ad is not so far removed from reality and that's
what scares me.I hope this ad is also pulled.

Anne Smith

Berkeley

Rewriting history?

The article compiled by Diana Kessinger (People column, Sept. 25) about Monica
Lewinsky has a large factual error. The last paragraph states "Clinton's affair
with Lewinsky led to his impeachment trial last year in the Senate. He was
acquitted."

The truth is the United States House of Representatives impeached President
Clinton. The United States Senate voted not to remove him from office.

There are far too many of us who followed the hearings and the trial to not know
the truth. Is this an attempt to rewrite history?

I know from personal experience that you correct all factual errors on the back
page of the front section of the newspaper. Surely you must realize by then the
damage has been done.

There was a time when I believed the media (printed and televised) reported all
the important news correctly without incorporating the reporter's personal views
into the article. Most of the reporting in the mainstream media is allowing the
reporters personal views to be included in their articles.

Whatever happened to journalism, when the journalist wrote their articles just
reporting the facts? Fox News Channel is fast becoming an important competitor
for fair and balanced reporting.

Linda Bertram

Antioch

D' for disarmament

I want to thank noted constitutional scholar Dave Wilcox of Walnut Creek
(Letters, Sept. 26) for directing us to the historical literature contemporary
to the drafting of the Second Amendment. Jefferson said, "I believe there are
more instances of the abridgment of the people by gradual and silent
encroachments of those in power, than by violent and sudden usurpations."
(Virginia Constitutional Convention Proceedings, 6/6/1788.) Mason said, "To
disarm the people is the best way to enslave them." (Elliott, Ed., The Debates
in the Several State Conventions.) Madison, the amendments' author, describes
"the advantage of being armed, which the Americans possess over the people of
almost every other nation." (Federalist 46.)These echoes from the past are
important if you prefer individual freedom to nanny government. With scant
differences between the political parties on most issues, if you responsibly own
a gun it is sad but true that "D" stands for Democrat and disarmament.

Terry Fries

Walnut Creek

Wrong from beginning

For over a year now we've been reading in the papers that Wen Ho Lee might be
spying for China because he was born in Taiwan. Whose idea was that? The
Taiwanese fear, mistrust even hate the Chinese.

Molly Brown Sestanovich

Moraga

Al a phony

Al Gore is such a phony. Surely, the American people can see through his
transparent act. Buddhist temples, iced tea defenses, no controlling legal
authority, inventing the internet, love story, Love Canal. What a joke. Holding
his dying sister in his arms at the '96 convention, vowing to fight the evil
weed. Then he was loudly and proudly hucking it and shucking before enthused
Tennessee tobacco farmers, policing Hollywood while living in the hip pocket of
Steven Spielberg and David Geffen, fighting for the little guy while living off
Occidental Oil, the argesse of Armand Hammer. Millions of dollars of illegal
Chinese money are coming in and the crown jewels of nuclear defense are going
out. Gore is at war with the automobile, seizing huge tracts of Western land and
scorching the Earth with uncontrolled burns. He is so beholden to the idea that
he would trap our urban poor in perhaps the worst schools on the planet. In
deception, dodge and duplicity, indeed, Gore learned at the knee of his master,
whom even his admirers concede was one of the best.

Todd Reich

Brentwood

Concord supported

Thank you for Jack Chang's Sept. 20 coverage of Concord City Council campaign
finance and the pledge of candidates Marcus O'Connell and Jack Novak not to
accept campaign funds from known special interests.

Bill McManigal's entire $9,000 campaign fund (reported through June 30)
consisted solely of $500 checks from people who do not reside in Concord. No
wonder so many controversial issues before the Concord City Council have been
decided in favor of special interests, and so little respect has been given to
the concerns voiced by Concord residents and neighborhoods in public comment at
City Council meetings.

Marcus O'Connell's campaign is supported broadly in Concord. To date more than
90 percent of the donations received are from Concord residents, the rest comes
from long-standing friends. Most donations are in modest amounts. All are from
people who are concerned about our general quality of life.

The right choice is clear.

Dan Bertuleit

Concord

Set a ZEV example

Mark DeSaulnier writes that "electric cars are essential in effort to reduce air
pollution" (Perspective, Sept. 24). He advocates that zero emission vehicles be
put to wider use. What kind of vehicles are DeSaulnier, the other members of the
California Air Resources Board, county supervisors, state legislators and the
governor driving? When they set the example by personally owning and daily
operating electric cars to demonstrate their practicality, then the rest of us
may be more inclined to do the same.

Mr. DeSaulnier, don't push lead the way.

Martin A. Snyder

Dublin

Gore promises empty

Al Gore has once again proven that actions speak louder than words. Gore
promised this week to "free (America) forever from the dominance of big oil and
foreign oil."

But Gore's actions have resulted in the opposite effect. Under Gore's watch,
America has actually become more dependent on foreign oil than at any other time
in history. Since 1992, our domestic oil production has decreased 20 percent
while our oil consumption has increased 15 percent.

These results should not be surprising since we have simply had no energy plan
under the Clinton/Gore administration. And now, as this crisis approaches a
head, Gore still refuses to speak honestly about this problem.

Instead, Gore wants to cover-up the problem by releasing our oil reserve,
although this would permanently cripple our dependence on foreign oil. Gore's
failure to act over the last eight years renders his promises empty.

Greg Labarthe

Concord

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 Contra Costa Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             307 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                           February 25, 2000, Friday

LORCH RIDES OUT STORM

BYLINE: By MICHAEL O'KEEFFE DAILY NEWS SPORTS WRITER With Keith Goldberg

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 96

LENGTH: 758 words

Ernie Lorch, wearing a white turtleneck and an inscrutable grin, was in his
usual seat - behind St. John's bench - for the Red Storm's win Monday against
Connecticut.

The sold-out Garden was rocking, but Lorch, the director of the Riverside Church
basketball program, sat like the hoops patriarch that he is, with bearing and
dignity. Men with power and influence don't rant and rave, even when their team
is upsetting the defending national champions.

And Lorch, whose program receives funding, athletic equipment and attitude from
Nike - the world's biggest athletic shoe company - has more power and influence
than just about anybody involved with New York City hoops.

"He's the most important man in New York City basketball," said Sonny Vaccaro,
head of grass-roots basketball for adidas, Nike's main competitor.

Riverside's senior team almost always dominates the tournaments it plays in
every summer. Former Johnnies Chris Mullin, Walter Berry, Malik Sealy, Mark
Jackson and Ron Artest all played for Riverside. So did Jerry Stackhouse, Elton
Brand and Kenny Anderson.

"Riverside is the Cadillac of traveling teams," said Dan Wetzel, co-author with
Don Yaeger of "Sole Influence," a look at the impact of shoe companies on
basketball.

Lorch and Riverside are fueled by the money the program receives from Nike, said
Vaccaro.

Blame Michael Jordan.

Nike, adidas and other shoe companies have spent millions on youth basketball
teams since the mid-'80s, when Jordan joined the NBA and signed on with the
swoosh company. When the next NBA superstar comes along, a shoe company hopes
he'll endorse its products because he's had a relationship with it since high
school.

"The stakes are high. If Nike gives you money, they expect you to win. Ernie is
beholden to Nike," Vaccaro said, who expects the same excellence from teams
sponsored by adidas.

Lorch and Riverside refused to be interviewed for this story. Nike officials
George Raveling and Don Crenshaw did not return numerous phone calls, and other
Nike officials declined comment.

But Wetzel estimates that Riverside, as one of the nation's elite traveling
teams, gets up to $100,000 a year from Nike. Nike also outfits St. John's men's
basketball team and its 20 other intercollegiate sports teams.

Lorch's drive to have the best team in the country, though, may have indirectly
gotten St. John's in trouble with the NCAA.

Doug Cummings, the headmaster of Maine Central Institute, told the Daily News
earlier this week that Riverside had paid for a portion of Erick Barkley's
$20,000 tuition when St. John's star point guard attended the prep school in
1997-98.

As a result, the NCAA could discipline Barkley, who was already benched for two
games this season because he swapped cars with a former summer league coach.

Lorch has said in the past that he's given financial assistance and other aid to
hundreds of kids since 1961, when the Riverside program was founded.

"I see nothing wrong with what he's done," Vaccaro said of Lorch. Instead,
Vaccaro blames NCAA rules that punish kids who need a hand getting through high
school and getting to college.

"What's his worst sin, he paid for a kid's tuition? That's not exactly a sin you
burn in hell for," Vaccaro laughed.

But Lorch is as much pompous egotist as he is philanthropist, critics say.

Several people have asked the News to keep them anonymous, then say horrible
things about him.

But even Lorch's harshest critics acknowledge that he's done a lot of good
things for kids.

"He's not in this for money or anything like that," said one coach. "He doesn't
need money. He's in it for the social power and the recognition. And I'm sure on
some level, he enjoys helping a kid like Erick Barkley go from the projects to
the NBA."

He also has lots of unabashed fans.

"He's a very nice and kind and honest man," said Patrick Cuffe, whose son Kyle,
a star at Rice High School, will attend St. John's next year. "He treats kids
with respect. He's a social worker. He's a decent man."

Still, Lorch is not just in this because he likes doing good deeds. The
basketball program, started as a way for Riverside to reach out to its young
neighbors in nearby Harlem, is now a business venture that has as much to do
with religious offerings as it does the Knicks.

"It's now Riverside-Dot-Com-International, Inc.," Vaccaro said.

"It's Ernie's fiefdom. It has nothing to do with the church anymore. Ernie is a
celebrity now, he's the man. This separates him from the rest of the corporate
stiffs."


LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HOWARD SIMMONS DAILY NEWS ON CENTER STAGE Ernie Lorch, director of
Riverside Church's basketball program, takes in St. John's-Syracuse game at
Garden.

                        Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.


                             308 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            October 1, 2000, Sunday

NIKE PULLS OUT OF SWEATSHOP

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 55 words


SPORTSWEAR giant Nike has pulled out of a Far East sweatshop factory after
discovering it used child labour.

Nike said it terminated its contract with the June Textiles factory as soon as
it was confronted with the truth by undercover investigators who filmed child
labourers sewing shirts for just a few pence a day.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                             309 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 8, 2000, Thursday

FOOTBALL: NIKE CUP : MAD MEXICAN CHEATED IRISH OUT OF VICTORY;
 MICK BLASTS NIKE CUP OFFICIALS

BYLINE: Roy Curtis In Boston

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 46, 48

LENGTH: 370 words


MICK McCARTHY called for the Mexican match officials to be red carded - after
being cheated of a US Cup victory over America.

On the wettest and coldest June night in Boston for 50 years, the sodden Irish
had to settle for a 1-1 draw after an extraordinary sequence of cock-ups brought
the competition into disrepute.

America 's equalising score was allowed stand after Mexican linesman Jose Ramos
Rizo failed to flag a blatant offside - despite being directly in line with the
incident.

TV replays confirmed that goal scorer Ante Razov was at least two yards offside
when he took the final pass from Ernie Stewart.

McCarthy was close to pulling out of the game after floodlight failure delayed
the game - played in the torrential rain and storm force gales that lashed
Boston - for 20 minutes.

When the match eventually restarted, the home side almost snatched a winner when
Rizo again waved play on despite an even more obvious offside.

"It was blatantly offside, it was a terrible decision," fumed the Irish boss of
the 68th minute equaliser."

"I feel lousy to have been denied a victory in such circumstances. It was even
worse that they showed a replay of the incident on the big screen immediately
afterwards.

"All our players were able to look up at the scoreboard and see it. Trying to
get them back concentrating on the game after they had seen it was very
difficult.

"I don't blame the Americans for taking the goal. I would have done the exact
same. Where I have a problem is with officials who can't see a blatant offside.

"But what can you do? Before the game the fourth official came to me and told me
he was a FIFA official. It was like he was warning me to behave myself."

McCarthy did his best to bite his tongue but his off the record comments to
Irish journalists revealed his fury.

Just three minutes later the lights went out and the saturated teams had no
option but to return to the dressing room for 20 minutes while the power was
restored.

"I was close to telling the lads to get back into their clothes. At one stage we
were told the delay might be for one hour.

"If it had gone on for another five minutes, we would have done something."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FUMING: Mick McCarthy angry after Boston draw with USA

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             310 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 8, 2000, Saturday

NIKE DENY SHIRT PERIL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 72 words


SPORTS giant Nike insisted yesterday there is no evidence that its UK-made
football strips are laced with a poisonous chemical.

A German TV show claimed Borussia Dortmund shirts contain TBT, which kills sweat
odour.

Nike refused to say where in Britain the kit is produced but said tests failed
to find any TBT - blamed for liver damage.

The firm's Arsenal and Glasgow Rangers shirts are not made in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             313 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 30, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Accounts

BYLINE: By Patricia Winters Lauro

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 59 words


Nike Inc., Beaverton, Ore., to Critical Mass, Calgary, Alberta, to handle
strategy and creative work for Nike iD, an interactive division of Nike.com that
sells customized athletic shoes. Billings were not disclosed. The account had
been at Red Sky Interactive, San Francisco. Critical Mass and Red Sky are both
partly owned by the Omnicom Group.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             314 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                             April 14, 2000, Friday

JUST SUE IT! BO'S GIVING NIKE A CASE OF THE BLUES

BYLINE: Devlin Barrett

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 022

LENGTH: 351 words


Who doesn't know Diddley?

Nike, that's who, as legendary guitarman Bo Diddley says in a suit filed in
Manhattan federal court.

Diddley says the sneaker company didn't give him squat after selling thousands
of T-shirts with his image and the catch phrase "You Don't Know Diddley."

The line was originally used in a popular 1989 Nike ad campaign, in which Bo
Jackson, the pro baseball and football player, was told: "You Don't Know
Diddley."

The musician was paid for the original campaign, but says the sneaky company
started selling the shirts again last year - without giving him a cut.

"This is a clear case of the big bully picking on the little guy," said Margo
Lewis, president of Diddley's management company.

Senior Nike official Vada Manager said yesterday afternoon that both sides were
working out a deal and that the company had offered Diddley between $10,000 and
$15,000 in royalties.

"That is absolutely false," fumed Diddley's lawyer, John Rosenberg. "I've never
negotiated in the press before, but you can communicate back to them that we
find this proposal entirely unacceptable."

Rosenberg said there had been a brief settlement discussion in March, but it
ended quickly when Nike refused to cough up a larger amount of money.

The company has made more than $200,000 selling the new batch of T-shirts,
Rosenberg said.

Diddley, 71, a blues icon for the past 45 years, filed the suit late Wednesday
under his real name, Ellas McDaniel.

"I'm sorry that it's come to this, but what's right is right," Diddley said in a
statement.

The suit seeks at least $500,000 in damages.

In the papers, Diddley claims Nike approached him in 1999 and talked about a new
marketing deal. But when the two sides couldn't agree on royalties, Nike walked
away, the suit says.

Months later, Diddley discovered that Web sites and other retailers were selling
the shirts, and had hawked far more than had originally been discussed.


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SOUR NOTE: Blues legend Bo Diddley is suing Nike over recently sold
T-shirts bearing his image and the phrase "You Don't Know Diddley."

           Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                             315 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 23, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

SECTION: BUSINESS; BRIEFLY; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 629 words



OFFENSIVE E-MAILS PROMPT FIRINGS AT DOW: Dow Chemical Co. plans to fire about 40
employees for allegedly violating the company's e-mail policy by circulating
violent or sexually explicit material. Other employees at the plant in Freeport,
Texas, face suspensions or reprimands, a spokeswoman said. Dow says the firings
follow a review of 6,000 e-mail accounts conducted after a worker complained
about offensive

e-mail.

NIKE TO FORM WOMEN'S DIVISION: Sneaker industry leader Nike is forming a
division to focus on designing and marketing women's footwear, apparel and
equipment. Nike chairman Phil Knight said growing interest in the WNBA and
women's soccer, along with the popularity of female Olympians, has increased
demand for women's sports and fitness products.

ORANGE JUICE FUTURES RISE ON STORM FEARS: Orange juice futures rose more than 2
percent as an approaching hurricane raised concern about possible damage to
Florida's crop, the nation's largest. Hurricane Debby, with winds close to 75
miles an hour, could reach southern Florida by Friday. While hurricane damage to
orange groves is unusual, traders said they are concerned about any possibility
that the crop will be smaller than the record some private forecasters have
predicted. Frozen concentrated orange juice for September delivery rose 1.75
cents, or 2.3 percent, to 76.55 cents a pound on the New York Cotton Exchange.

PEROT LEAVES CEO POST: Ross Perot, the billionaire and former presidential
candidate, stepped down as chief executive of Perot Systems Corp. and handed
over the top position to his son. Ross Perot Jr., 41, will become president and
chief executive of the Dallas computer services company, while the 70-year-old
Perot will remain as chairman. A spokeswoman said health was not a factor in the
decision.

BANK ONE PRESIDENT TO RETIRE: Bank One Corp. said president and former chairman
Verne Istock will retire in September, six months after handing control of the
company over to chief executive James Dimon. Istock, 59, was interim chief
executive after the departure in December of John B. McCoy, who left after
earnings dropped at the company's credit card division and the stock plunged.
Dimon was hired in March to restore investor confidence in the stock and revive
Bank One's earnings, which have fallen for four consecutive quarters. Bank One
also said it will cut five outside directors from its board to streamline the
company's decisionmaking.

TOYS "R" US SUED OVER WEB PRIVACY: Toys "R" Us faces class-action lawsuits in
three states after revealing last month that it was sharing online customer data
with a California marketing firm. Coremetrics, a data analysis firm, said it hid
identification codes on the computers of Toys "R" Us customers to track their
Internet browsing habits. The lawsuits contend the Web site violated federal law
and its own privacy policy by failing to disclose that it shared customers'
personal information with an outsider. Toys "R" Us and Coremetrics deny any
wrongdoing.

COKE EXPEDITES BONUSES: Coca-Cola Co. said it will pay some workers half of
their annual bonuses earlier than normal to boost morale after the soft-drink
company cut jobs and faced lawsuits related to its employment practices. About
9,000 employees, or one-third of Coca-Cola's work force, will receive half of
their bonuses by the end of the month, a spokesman said. Eligible workers
include management and professional workers. This year, Coca-Cola fired 5,200
employees, or about a fifth of its work force, to cut costs. It expects to save
about $ 300-million in 2001. Coca-Cola also agreed to settle a racial
discrimination lawsuit with current and former black workers who alleged the
company denied them promotions and pay raises.


LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                             317 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                February 5, 2000

The price of a label
No Logo by Naomi Klein. Flamingo, 490pp, (pounds) 14.99 in UK

BYLINE: By BERNICE HARRISON

SECTION: CITY EDITION; WEEKEND; BUSINESS; Pg. 69

LENGTH: 638 words


If you feel a small pin prick in your conscience every time you see "made in
China" on a toy or "made in Indonesia" on your trainers, then according to Naomi
Klein you are part of a growing global awareness that the shiny goods made by
multinationals are often produced on the backs of low paid, grossly exploited
workers.

Klein is an anti-corporate activist and a journalist and her engaging and lively
book, No Logo, explores the way multinationals work, particularly in the garment
and sportswear sectors, and how activists are forcing companies to be more
transparent and fair in their dealings with their mostly Asian suppliers. The
strength of her book lies in her research and in the countless examples she
details of the disparity between brand image and the manufacturing process. Toys
made by workers that are no more than children themselves, and well-known
designer clothes made in sweatshop conditions by workers who could work for a
full month and still not be able to afford the Tshirt they have just made.

She looks particularly closely at the sportswear giant, Nike, who throughout the
1980s and 1990s built up one of the world's biggest brand names only to see it
seriously undermined, thanks to several exposes of its manufacturing processes.
In 1998, Nike's charismatic CEO, Phil Knight, finally admitted that his shoes
"have become synonymous with slave wages, forced overtime and arbitrary abuse".
It was a shocking admission. After all, Nike is held up as the great example of
successful marketing, the brand builder that companies all around the world
strive to emulate. Through advertising and sponsorship it took the humble
running shoe off the track and brought it onto the streets, creating a brand
image that was so cool and covetable that kids were literally willing to kill
for them. From the number crunchers' point of view the beauty for the company is
that it isn't weighed down with all the cost and responsibility of traditional
manufacturing techniques simply because Nike doesn't own any factories.

Every single product is out-sourced in countries where wages are low by US
standards and workers' rights are limited. At the time of Knight's public
admission, workers in one Indonesian factory producing $ 100 trainers were being
paid 80 cents an hour. Activists pressed Nike to double the wages at a cost to
the company of $ 20 million, exactly what Michael Jordan is paid per year to
promote Nike. Instead the workers got a small raise and the company bowed its
corporate head and vowed to develop "an aggressive corporate responsibility".

Nike is not alone. Klein paints a grim image of profit-motivated multinationals
treating the world as a giant shopping mall, going from country to country
looking for the best labour bargains without any sense of social or
environmental responsibility. She describes a world where everything is branded
or sponsored, from water to universities and rightly points out that we have
reached such a point of corporate dependency that we can't imagine any event
taking place without a corporate sponsor.

Books by activists can so easily become leaden polemics but Klein is engaging as
well as informative, while giving a broad cultural perspective. With her tongue
firmly in her cheek she admits that anti-multinational activism is now so
fashionable that it was to the 1990s what saving the whale was to the 1980s, and
she acknowledges the irony of an anti-corporate book being published by
Flamingo, an imprint of HarperCollins - itself part of a multinational. She has
written an admittedly one-sided book that's as persuasive as any advertisement,
which will cause readers to feel more than a little uncomfortable about our
logo-driven world.

Bernice Harrison is a journalist and writes the Advertising and Marketing column
for The Irish Times

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2000 The Irish Times


                             318 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 10, 2000, Saturday

Nike

BYLINE: Edited Chris Ayres

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 33 words


Nike, the US sportswear manufacturer, said it had opened an online store on
rediff.com, the Indian Internet portal. The shop will feature Nike products and
will be updated once a month.


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited


                             319 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                      May 11, 2000 Thursday Final Edition

Hi-tech gear for athletes

SOURCE: The Province

SECTION: Money; Breakfast Briefing; Pg. A39

LENGTH: 87 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore.

BEAVERTON, Ore. -- Sneaker and sportswear marketer Nike Inc. is diversifying
into hi-tech sports gear to offer devices for athletes like a digital audio
player which will be in retail stores in July. It was produced in collaboration
with S3's Diamond Multimedia division -- the makers of Rio Audio digital
players. Nike said four other products would ready for the Christmas season,
including real-time speed-distance and heart rate monitoring devices, a digital
compass and handheld sport communication products.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Business; Brief

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             320 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                    August 23, 2000 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

WOODS' GOLF BALL ADS LACKING ACCURACY

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 852 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


SAN FRANCISCO Tiger Woods endorses "Nike Tour Accuracy" golf balls in TV and
magazine ads, but he really plays with custom-made balls unavailable to everyday
duffers, Nike acknowledged Tuesday after being sued in federal court.

Nike Inc. said the balls Woods uses have a slightly harder inner and outer core
than the balls sold to the public. "Those two elements are slightly firmer than
the marketed ball," Mike Kelly, marketing director for Nike Golf, said.

Kelly said it's common practice in the golfing world to sell the public
different products than what the pros really use.

"It's an industry practice to make minor specification changes to golf products:
irons, putters and golf balls for tour players," Kelly said. "Slight
specification and modifications need to be made to their equipment for their
game."

But other leading names in golf say their customers get exactly what their pros
endorse.

Joe Gomes, a spokesman for Titleist, said its players use the same products they
advertise. And if a player uses a "tweaked" version of a club, he said, a
consumer could special order it.

Callaway Golf, said if one of its pros says he uses a certain club, that
identical club is available retail.

Woods' agent, Mark Steinberg, didn't immediately return a call requesting
comment on the lawsuit.

In the suit filed Tuesday in U.S. District Court in San Francisco, a nonprofit
group called Public Remedies Inc. claimed Nike was engaging in unfair business
practices. It asks that Nike's "ill-gotten gains" be restored to the public.

"Tiger Woods does not play the Nike Tour Accuracy golf ball, but instead plays
one with a different composition and performance characteristics specially made
for him ... and not available to the general public," the suit said.

The group did not return repeated calls for comment.

Woods officially switched to the Nike Tour Accuracy ball before the U.S. Open,
the first of his three major championships this year. The move officially ended
a marketing conflict between Woods' top two golf sponsors Nike and Titleist that
began last year when Nike entered the ball market.

U.S. Amateur

SPRINGFIELD, N.J. A car salesman who once was a pro golfer and a collegian from
Rhode Island shared medal honors at the U.S. Amateur, but the event lost one of
its most recognized faces when 1997 champion Matt Kuchar didn't advance to match
play.

Reinstated amateur Jeff Wilson, the medalist at the recent U.S. Open, and Jim
Salinetti of the University of Rhode Island topped the field of 312 players by
posting 4-under-par 137 totals. Tom McKnight, a 1998 Amateur finalist, finished
a stroke behind the leaders.

The Lower and Upper courses at Baltusrol yielded only seven sub-par rounds for
36 holes.

Danville's Troy McKinley advanced to match play by shooting a 3-over 73 on the
7,116-yard Lower Course for a 4-over 145 total.

Pleasanton's Jason Boyd failed to advance, posting a 3-over 74 on the 6,887-yard
Upper Course for a 9-over 150 total.

Also advancing to match play which starts today on the Upper Course, were
Stockton's Ricky Barnes (140); Napa's Andy Miller (142), the son of NBC golf
analyst Johnny Miller; Dixon's Nick Watney (142); and Los Altos' Charles Woerner
(143).

Exactly 64 players made the cut at 5-over 146, marking the first time there has
not been a playoff for positions in match play since the current format was
started in 1979.

Kuchar finished at 148 in missing match play for the second straight year. He
had a 1-over 71 on the Lower Course on Tuesday.

Suisun City's Wilson, 37, who mostly hits ball at a range because of time
constraints with work and two children limit his golfing, stayed in front with
an even-par 70 on the Lower Course. He had three birdies and three bogeys.

"I really wanted to be the medalist when I started my round today," Wilson said.

Salinetti, 22, shot a 2-under 68 on the Lower Course.

McKinley will play Ben Curtis (142) today, with a tee time of 6:20 a.m. (PDT).
Wilson will tee off against David Patrick (146) at 7:10 a.m.

Elsewhere

David Duval, still trying to recover from an injured back, withdrew from this
week's NEC Invitational and probably won't play again until the Buick Challenge
at the end of September. The injury forced him to miss the PGA Championship.

* Dave Renwick got married after the British Open and returned to work in the
PGA Championship. But he was fired by Vijay Singh after Singh missed the cut in
the PGA. The split came four months after they won the Masters.

* Woods' final round duel Sunday with Bob May was the most watched PGA
Championship on television. CBS Corp. generated an 8.8 rating and a 21 share for
Woods' playoff victory. The network estimated 38.5 million viewers watched all
or part of the PGA, most since the event was first aired in 1958.

* The LPGA Tour will move its season-ending event after its site for the past
four years closed. The Arch Championship on Nov. 16-19 will be played at another
site in Las Vegas or in Florida, after the Desert Inn Resort closed to make room
for a new hotel owned by Steve Wynn.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: mug, Jim Salinetti

                       Copyright 2000 Contra Costa Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             324 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                November 4, 2000

Breach of club's charter fear over child labour allegations

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 292 words


THE deal may delight the board and the fans, and have kids of all ages rushing
to wear the trademark Nike swoosh, but the deal may not be universally popular
with shareholders.

Nike will replace Umbro as United's kit manufacturers from July 2002 in a 13
-year deal with a staggering £302.9m. However United shareholders are worried
the Reds may be in breach of their own club charter because of the allegations
that Nike uses child labour.

In a letter sent to chief executive Peter Kenyon earlier this week, Shareholders
United vice chair Michael Crick, wrote: "Article 1.6 of the new club charter
says, 'Manchester United plc opposes the exploitation of child labour. No orders
will be placed from suppliers employing child labour under the age allowed in
the country concerned'. Shareholders United fully support this."

United's group marketing director Peter Draper tried to allay these fears, but
Shareholders United remain to be convinced.

The shareholders group also fear that Nike may have too much influence on United
and may pressure the club into representing the American company around the
world in various tournaments.

Spokesman Oliver Houston pointed out Nike's relationship with the Brazilian FA
was being examined by the Brazilian government.

He said: "This is not just about the allegations of child labour and we're
concerned that commercial pressure will be put on United.

"United went out to the Far East to play in a Pepsi tournament and who's to say
that similar things won't happen with Nike.

"We're also still awaiting the outcome of the Brazilian Parliamentary Commission
on Nike's interference. From a PR point of view it seems foolhardy to rush into
this after the warning we gave them."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                             325 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 16, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Good Propaganda, Bad Economics

BYLINE: By Jaime Sneider;  Jaime Sneider is editorial page editor of The
Columbia Daily Spectator.

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 513 words


College students continue to propagate the myth that Nike and other apparel
companies contract out to foreign "sweatshops" where overworked and underpaid
workers toil in unhealthful conditions. They are especially outraged by the
recent decision by Phil Knight of Nike to withdraw a promised $30 million
donation to the University of Oregon in protest of the school's decision to join
the Worker Rights Consortium, a labor rights group.

Rather than condemn Mr. Knight, students should commend him.

The Worker Rights Consortium, which was established last fall by students,
unions and human rights groups, accuses Nike of failing to pay its workers a
"living wage," ignoring safety concerns, and forcing employees to work overtime.
But, comparatively speaking, conditions at third world factories where Nike
goods are made are remarkably benevolent. For example, a number of the plants
have air conditioning in countries where it is a rarity. Some factories also
have clinics that can be used by employees' families, who otherwise would have
little if any medical care. Several others even have schools where workers'
children can learn everything from reading and writing to biology and physics.

A typical worker in a Nike factory in Vietnam makes about $564 a year, which may
not seem like much, but is more than twice the country's average annual income.
The employee turnover rate in Nike's factories in Indonesia is consistently
below 2 percent, low even by American standards. Such loyalty suggests that
workers do not have better prospects.

Many statistics cited by student activists are misleading and originate with the
A.F.L.-C.I.O., which has endorsed the Worker Rights Consortium. The
A.F.L.-C.I.O. has a direct economic interest: the regulations advocated by the
consortium would increase American companies' foreign manufacturing costs, thus
encouraging them to abandon their operations abroad and manufacture products
domestically instead -- employing union labor.

Phil Knight has agreed to an open monitoring of Nike factories through the Fair
Labor Association, a group composed of consumer groups, corporations and
universities that has been endorsed by the White House. Nike has said that many
students have genuine concerns about working conditions abroad, and that the
company recognizes that there is always room for improvement.

But, according to a Nike spokeswoman, "the way to get true reform is to have all
the players at the table." The Worker Rights Consortium, on the other hand, has
not prescribed clear goals or monitoring procedures, and does not yet have legal
status as a nonprofit organization. It has been reluctant to include companies
like Nike in the dialogue, claiming that corporate participation of any kind
threatens workers' rights.

While many students uncritically believe the Worker Rights Consortium, they
ignore the fact that Phil Knight and Nike have championed the well-being of
workers internationally. By trying to punish Nike, these students threaten to
impoverish the workers they claim to protect.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             326 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 30, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Nike ad suits Texas town just fine, but not to a 't'

BYLINE: Oscar Dixon

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 308 words


Los Angeles Lakers center Shaquille O'Neal has played hoops
in Brackettville -- not the fictional town that's the capital
of the college basketball universe in those Nike ads but the honest-to-goodness
town of Brackettville, Texas.

Unlike Nike's creation, the West Texas town (pop. 1,740) is no
hotbed of hoops -- the small ranch community has more goats and
sheep than basketball players.

O'Neal played against Brackett High while at Cole High in San
Antonio, a two-hour drive from Brackettville.

Visitors to Brackettville are not likely to see former college
coaches John Thompson and Dean Smith sitting on
a porch. But they could run into Brackettville Chamber of Commerce
board member Kenneth Hale at his auto parts store. Or Tulisha
Wardlaw, who helps run Brackettville's No. 1 attraction, Alamo
Village, the set of John Wayne's 1959 Alamo that was filmed
on the family ranch.

"You know it's not the real Brackettville when you see it on
TV because its missing a 'T,' " Wardlaw jokes.

Nike officials didn't spell Brackettville correctly because they
didn't know there really was a town. After the discovery they
sent an assortment of volleyballs, basketballs and soccer balls
to Brackettville schools, along with baseball bats. "We wanted
to do something to salute them since their name is in our ads,"
Nike spokesman Lee Weinstein says.

Although the campaign has put the town on the map, so to speak,
tourism is not on the rise. "You'll see we're sort of stuck out
here all by ourselves," Hale says.

Wardlaw, who was "born and raised in Brackettville" and watched
her 6-2 son play against O'Neal, says that could change. "Over
the summer, people will drive to Brackettville who wouldn't have."
And if they don't? "When you see Bracketville on the TV, it fills
your heart with pride."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W; It really exists: Brackettville, Texas, 117 miles west of
San Antonio, is home to the Alamo Village but not the Nike ad.

                      Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.


                             327 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                          September 6, 2000, Wednesday

Golden Carl on his way

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 84 words


NINE-time gold medallist Carl Lewis, pictured, will be a guest at the Sydney
Olympics courtesy of two of the Games' biggest sponsors. Lewis is being brought
to Sydney by sportswear giant Nike and will also perform functions for
McDonald's.

He will speak at corporate functions and feature in Nike advertisements.

Nike is also negotiating with triple gold medallist Jackie Joyner-Kersee to
attend the Games.

Joyner-Kersee retired this year after dominating and heptathlon for almost a
decade.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             328 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                    December 21, 2000 Thursday FINAL EDITION

DUVAL REPORTEDLY SIGNS WITH NIKE;
GOLF WORLD BUSINESS SAYS THE WORLD'S NO. 3 PLAYER WILL BE SWOOSHED FROM HEAD TO
TOE AND WILL PLAY THE NIKE BALL

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C09

LENGTH: 601 words


Times wire services

Nike signed David Duval, the third-ranked player in the World Golf Rankings, to
a comprehensive endorsement contract, reported Golf World Business, citing
several industry sources it didn't identify.

Duval will wear a hat, glove, clothes, and shoes bearing the company's familiar
swoosh logo, and use a Nike golf ball as part of the agreement, the newsletter
said. His golf bag will bear Nike's logo and he's expected to help in the design
and testing of irons for the world's largest maker of athletic shoes.

Terms of the contract weren't disclosed by Golf World Business.

The 29-year-old Duval joins Tiger Woods, the world's top-ranked golfer, as a
Nike endorser. Woods signed a five-year extension with Nike believed to be worth
$100 million in September.

Duval exercised an option to break his contract with Fortune Brands' Acushnet
golf brands, including Titleist clubs, balls, shoes and glove, Golf World said.
He's also escaping a new agreement with clothing maker Ermenegildo Zegna.

Charley Moore, Duval's agent with IMG, didn't return a call seeking comment.
Nike Golf spokesman Mike Kelly and Acushnet spokesman Joe Gomes had no comment.

"We do not comment on and rumored contracts with players past, present or
future," Kelly said.

Duval was seventh on the PGA Tour's 2000 money list, with more than $2.46
million in winnings. He won the Buick Challenge in October for his first tour
victory since the 1999 BellSouth Classic.

Duval was at the top of the world rankings before Woods, who won 11 times in a
20-month span to take over the lead. Duval recorded the third 59 in tour history
during the final round of the Bob Hope Classic in 1999 to tie the record for
lowest score in a single round.

Duval played the Nike Tour Accuracy ball in the alternate-shot format at the
World Golf Championships World Cup in Argentina earlier this month when
partnered with Woods on the U.S. team.

PRESIDENTIAL campaign: A campaign is under way to make Lee Elder U.S. captain
for the 2002 Presidents Cup in South Africa.

Sharon Elder said she was sending a letter Tuesday to PGA Tour commissioner Tim
Finchem outlining the reasons why her husband would be the appropriate choice to
lead the American team at Fancourt Lakes.

Elder, known best as the first black to play in the Masters in 1975, broke
another barrier a few years before that when Gary Player invited him to play a
golf tournament in South Africa at a time when blacks and whites were banned
from playing in the same competition.

Player is the likely choice to be the International team captain in 2002.

"Lee has been back to South Africa several times, he has a school named after
him there and he's well-received," Mrs. Elder said from their home in south
Florida. "Those are the reasons why we feel so strongly he would make a
wonderful captain."

WEST COAST CHA-CHING: A new title sponsor isn't the only difference in next
year's West Coast Swing bonus program.

The player who accumulates the most points based on top-eight finishes in the
first nine tournaments will earn a $500,000 bonus up from $200,000 last year.

Second place will get $300,000, and third place $200,000.

The St. Paul, a property liability insurer, is sponsoring the program, which
also pumps $300,000 into each tournament purse except for the Match Play
Championship.

BUZZ OFF: One of the more innovative lines for 2001 should come in handy for the
summer months a mosquito-proof shirt from Dockers Golf. The product was
developed for French military troops in North Africa.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Duval apparently liked what he saw when he played with a Nike
ball in the WGC World Cup. (AP)

                       Copyright 2000 Contra Costa Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             332 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            June 24, 2000, Saturday

ATHLETES GET THE SUPERHERO TREATMENT;
Just wear it, says Nike

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 158

LENGTH: 171 words


PORTLAND, Oregon: The world's fastest sprinters already get the superhero
treatment from Nike. Now they will dress like them too.

Nike yesterday unveiled its Swift Suit, a full-body uniform that the company
hopes will be worn by a select group of athletes.

The suit, which has a hood with mesh ear holes and stirrups, is made in five
different fabrics. It is designed to focus on runners' muscle-temperature and
aerodynamics.

The seams are all in the back of the suit, the front zipper is hidden and the
sleeves extend to cover part of the hands  all aimed at producing better results
by reducing air-flow separation.

"It's awesome," sprinter Marion Jones said. "When I'm in my running motion, it
feels like everything is where it needs to be.

"I wouldn't consider it a second skin, but it does what it's made to do and
hopefully that's run very fast."

The suit, which is being pushed for sprinting events, debuts tonight at the
Prefontaine Classic in Oregon.

  *  PAGE 151: More on the   Olympics.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             334 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 26, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Admen behaving badly flourish in movies, on TV Stereotypes smarmy with hearts of
gold

BYLINE: Michael McCarthy

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 707 words


Advertising executives are the people Hollywood loves to hate.

A spate of recent movies and TV shows featuring stars such as
Mel Gibson and Ben Affleck depict Hollywood's version of your
typical ad executive: selfish, smarmy and brash -- but glamorous
nonetheless.

"We're still branded as snake-oil salesmen," says Marshall Karp,
ad agency creative director turned screenwriter who wrote the
recent movie Just Looking directed by Seinfeld's
Jason Alexander. "There are very few movies that reflect what
actually goes on in an ad agency."


That's doesn't stop Hollywood from trying. Advertising characters
are a staple of TV shows and movies ranging from Bewitched,
thirtysomething and Melrose Place to Kramer vs.
Kramer with Dustin Hoffman.

Ad agencies provide a glamorous world for filmmakers to show well-dressed
people acting badly in fabulous-looking offices. "Ad people are
the more picturesque version of the salesmen from Glengarry
Glen Ross," says Mark DiMassimo, creative director of DiMassimo
Brand Advertising.

Recent examples of the advertising-goes-Hollywood trend:

* What Women Want. Gibson plays Nick Marshall, a
chauvinistic creative director at a Chicago ad agency. Gibson
fancies himself a ladies man. But he meets his match in his new
boss, Helen Hunt. Celluloid and real life merge in the film. Director
Nancy Meyers approached Nike to use the brand in her film.

As Nike gears up to launch its largest-ever line of women's shoes
and apparel in 2001, the product placement was "a once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity to position our brand in a powerful way," says Pam
McConnell, Nike's director of entertainment marketing.

Meyers even cast three female executives from Nike -- Jackie Thomas,
Rory Rubin and Nancy Monsarrat -- in a scene in which Gibson pitches
Nike's account.

Nike's real-life ad agency, Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, made
a mock TV commercial just for the film.

Says movie reporter Angela Dawson: "It goes back to Darrin Stephens
and Bewitched: Advertising is one of those professions
that's easy to portray on screen."

* Bounce. Affleck stars as Buddy Amaral, a "hotshot
ad executive" and "closer" at "L.A.'s hippest ad agency."
The plot describes the stereotypical movie ad guy: "Buddy makes
things happen. Fearlessly confident and wildly charming, his clients
love him. Thanks to his killer good looks, so does every woman
he meets."

Affleck hung out at real-life Los Angeles agency TBWA/Chiat/Day
to research his role. "Ben had a lot of ideas," recalls Clay
Williams, now a commercial director for Crossroads Films. Consumer
trends analyst Tom Julian of Fallon Worldwide thinks "advertising
looks pretty stupid" in Bounce. But Williams thinks filmmakers
simply use "hotshot ad executive" interchangeably with "investment
banker" to portray driven, Type A personalities on the silver
screen.

"It's half truth, half fiction. But that's OK. People don't go
to the movies to see a documentary about the ad business," Williams
says.

* Cursed.  Steven Weber stars in the NBC
sitcom as a "cheerful ad executive whose fast-track life is suddenly
derailed by what he thinks may be a mysterious hex." Unctuous
ad types provide a "shortcut" for audiences, says Ellis Verdi,
CEO of DeVito/Verdi. "You say 'ad executive' and certain pictures
come to mind. We're still the slick, say-whatever-you-want-to-hear
type. The truth is most people in advertising fit the stereotype.
And that's the problem."

Ad executives say one of the most accurate portrayals of agency
life was TV's thirtysomething (Machiavellian agency leader
Miles Drentell, now seen on ABC's Once and Again, was based
on ad legend Jay Chiat).

The most ridiculous: Melrose Place, where the characters
did everything from answering phones to creating campaigns.

Screenwriters like ad characters because they provide the necessary
arc from bad to good. Both Gibson and Affleck's characters turn
out to have hearts of gold.

"Ad executives are people that Hollywood finds sexy enough to
be interesting -- and despicable enough to see the light by the
end of the movie," Karp says.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Miramax; PHOTO, B/W, Chris Haston, NBC; PHOTO, B/W, Andrew
Cooper, Paramount Pictures; A "closer": Ben Affleck "makes things happen" as an
ad executive in Bounce with Gwyneth Paltrow. To research the movie role, Affleck
hung out at a real-life ad agency.  On NBC: Steven Weber, right, plays an adman
on Cursed, which guest starred Charlton Heston. Stretching: Mel Gibson stars in
What Women Want as an ad executive who fancies himself a ladies man.

                      Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.


                             335 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                November 4, 2000

Manchester and Nike are united
 FOOTBALL: Sportswear giants tie up deal with Reds

SECTION: Agency: AGENCY, Pg.55

LENGTH: 472 words


MANCHESTER United last night confirmed their status as the biggest football club
in the world with the announcement of a huge sponsorship deal with sportswear
giants Nike, worth an incredible GBP 302.9million over 13 years.

The "strategic alliance", which starts in August 2002, makes Nike official
sponsors and hands them worldwide rights to all United merchandise and global
retail operations.

The deal could be even more lucrative to United, who will get half of Nike's net
profits generated from the licensing and retail operations providing they stay
in the top half of the Premiership and play in Europe.

To put the deal into perspective, it works out at GBP 23.3million a year for
United and the total is more than a quarter of the GBP 1.1billion Sky are paying
all the Premiership clubs for live TV rights.

It dwarfs the GBP 30million four-year shirt sponsorship deal United announced
with Vodafone - then a record - and the only comparable arrangement is the
sponsorship deal Nike have with the Brazilian national side.

A statement from to the Stock Exchange read: "Manchester United plc has granted
to athletic, footwear and apparel leader Nike exclusive worldwide rights as,
firstly, the official sponsor of Manchester United footwear, apparel and
equipment, secondly, the official kit (uniform) supplier to Manchester United,
thirdly, the manufacturer, marketer and seller of licensed apparel, footwear,
equipment and other merchandise bearing the Manchester United trademarks
including replica kit and, lastly, the operator of Manchester United's global
retail operations."

United and Nike will set up a subsidiary to control the global operation, each
appointing half the directors. Nike will appoint the chairman, who will have the
casting vote, and the sportswear giants will also have the option to terminate
the deal after six years if they should wish.

United's statement said the club intend to use the revenue for "general
corporate purposes" - meaning some of the money will be available for buying
players, though Sir Alex Ferguson is unlikely to benefit as his contract expires
in the summer of 2002 and he has said he will move on.

Nike and United will also launch grass-roots football programme aimed at young
players, with the GBP 1million-a-year running costs funded by Nike.

Meanwhile, Mark Bosnich's fortunes have gone from bad to worse after finding out
he needs a hernia operation.

The Manchester United goalkeeper could be sidelined for up to six weeks because
of the surgery.

This rounds off a miserable week for the Australian after he slipped to fourth
in the pecking order at Old Trafford.

Bosnich could not even make the squad for United's midweek Worthington Cup tie
at Watford and rookie Paul Rachubka came on for Raimond van der Gouw when the
Dutchman was sent off.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2000 Evening Herald


                             336 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The Weekend Australian

                          September 30, 2000, Saturday

Will the Phantom suit ride again?

BYLINE: Michael McGuire

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 425 words


THE multi-million-dollar question for Olympic-watchers tonight is whether Marion
Jones will wear her Phantom suit for the 4x400m relay final.

Nike was delighted when Cathy Freeman powered to victory in the 400m final on
Monday in her suit. Now the sponsor is hoping Jones will follow suit and give
the company a huge global boost.

Nike, which has spent three years and millions of dollars developing the
concept, launched the suit amid great publicity and hype in August, using its
pin-up girl Jones, and US team-mates Maurice Greene and Michael Johnson.

Of the three, only Jones has worn the suit during the Games, and that was in a
heat. Industry watchers believe Nike is hugely disappointed that the suit has
been shunned by the Americans.

Freeman's coach, Peter Fortune, said the decision to wear the suit had been
hers, but there was no doubt Nike was extraordinarily happy that she did.

However, her influence does not extend too far outside Australia, and she is a
virtual unknown in the US.

Sports marketing consultant Damien Stenmark said that "globally, Nike would be
disappointed".

"Is the women's 100m going to be a glamour event in the US? Yes it is," he said.

Fortune said Freeman would not decide if she would wear the suit again until
later today. It all depends on how she feels.

"When she really feels positive about a race, she is more than likely to wear
it," Fortune said.

So while Freeman was confident about her prospects in the 400m and wore the
suit, she was feeling tired before Thursday night's 200m final and decided
against it.

Fortune said the main effect of the suit is psychological, and its effect on
performance "miniscule".

"Maybe one- or two-hundredths over 400m," he said.

One competitor said that Nike athletes were usually well trained to obey their
master's calling.

"They drill them on what to wear, and to do things like take their shoes off
after a race (to attract more attention from television cameras)," the
competitor said. "That kind of thing is always orchestrated at Nike."

But while Nike can exert some pressure to conform to the corporate vision, at
the end of the day the athletes retain the right to wear what feels most
comfortable.

Nike has said this week that it has had no problem with the decision of Jones
not to wear her suit when she won the 100m final last week.

Despite this equanimity, the company has extensively used Jones wearing the suit
in its Olympic advertising, obviously believing the sprinter would wear the suit
during the Games.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             337 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The Weekend Australian

                          September 30, 2000, Saturday

Will the Phantom suit ride again?

BYLINE: Michael McGuire

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 425 words


THE multi-million-dollar question for Olympic-watchers tonight is whether Marion
Jones will wear her Phantom suit for the 4x400m relay final.

Nike was delighted when Cathy Freeman powered to victory in the 400m final on
Monday in her suit. Now the sponsor is hoping Jones will follow suit and give
the company a huge global boost.

Nike, which has spent three years and millions of dollars developing the
concept, launched the suit amid great publicity and hype in August, using its
pin-up girl Jones, and US team-mates Maurice Greene and Michael Johnson.

Of the three, only Jones has worn the suit during the Games, and that was in a
heat. Industry watchers believe Nike is hugely disappointed that the suit has
been shunned by the Americans.

Freeman's coach, Peter Fortune, said the decision to wear the suit had been
hers, but there was no doubt Nike was extraordinarily happy that she did.

However, her influence does not extend too far outside Australia, and she is a
virtual unknown in the US.

Sports marketing consultant Damien Stenmark said that "globally, Nike would be
disappointed".

"Is the women's 100m going to be a glamour event in the US? Yes it is," he said.

Fortune said Freeman would not decide if she would wear the suit again until
later today. It all depends on how she feels.

"When she really feels positive about a race, she is more than likely to wear
it," Fortune said.

So while Freeman was confident about her prospects in the 400m and wore the
suit, she was feeling tired before Thursday night's 200m final and decided
against it.

Fortune said the main effect of the suit is psychological, and its effect on
performance "miniscule".

"Maybe one- or two-hundredths over 400m," he said.

One competitor said that Nike athletes were usually well trained to obey their
master's calling.

"They drill them on what to wear, and to do things like take their shoes off
after a race (to attract more attention from television cameras)," the
competitor said. "That kind of thing is always orchestrated at Nike."

But while Nike can exert some pressure to conform to the corporate vision, at
the end of the day the athletes retain the right to wear what feels most
comfortable.

Nike has said this week that it has had no problem with the decision of Jones
not to wear her suit when she won the 100m final last week.

Despite this equanimity, the company has extensively used Jones wearing the suit
in its Olympic advertising, obviously believing the sprinter would wear the suit
during the Games.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             338 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                         September 27, 2000, Wednesday

Nike sells our hero to the world

BYLINE: LUCY CLARK

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 248 words


FROM what we know of Cathy, it seems safe to say money is way down on her list
of priorities in terms of what winning that gold means to her. But try and hold
back the tide of commercial opportunities now facing the nation's darling.

Yesterday, as Sydney woke to 220 brand new Nike billboards of a bodysuited
Freeman only hours after her win, one sports marketing expert put her potential
contract earnings with Nike at $5 to $10 million a year.

Sporting Frontiers managing director Michael Porra said: "She could be the first
Olympian to become a truly global brand. With endorsements, merchandising and
media deals she could be worth $5 to $10 million a year."

"My opinion is that after winning that gold medal under intense pressure her
worth has increased 200 to 1000 per cent, not just in endorsements but in
merchandising and media deals."

Mark McCormack, owner and founder of the big gun in global sports management,
International Management Group, was more circumspect, saying it was impossible
to put a figure on what financial gains Freeman might reap as an Olympic gold
medal winner, but that she should act quickly if she wanted international
dividends.

But Freeman's business manager and accountant, Alistair Hamblin, yesterday gave
no indication Team Freeman would be swoop quickly on commercial opportunities
arising from her win.

"Cathy is going to weigh up her options and decide where her career is going
after the Games," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             339 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                       September 29, 2000, Friday, FINAL

Man U, Nike a team

BYLINE: Herald News Services

SECTION: Sports; E10

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Nike is set to shell out 300 million pounds ($675 million Cdn) to have its
swoosh logo appear on the jerseys of the world's most popular professional
soccer club, Manchester United, according to a published report Thursday.

The massive 15-year deal is to take effect in 2002 when Man United's current
contract with Umbro expires, the Sun newspaper reported.

At 20 million pounds ($45 million Cdn) a year, the reported deal would dwarf the
seven million pounds ($16 million Cdn) a year Nike pays to provide Brazil's
national team its distinctive bright yellow jerseys.

It would also overshadow the $100- million US ($150 million Cdn), five- year
contract extension recently signed between golf sensation Tiger Wood and the
American athletic apparel company.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             341 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             April 14, 2000 Friday

Nike sprints toward Olympics

BYLINE: JOHN HEINZL

SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS: MANAGING; MARKETING; Pg. M1

LENGTH: 552 words


It's 34 metres wide and 16 metres high, contains 20,000 LEDs, and took about
four months from conception to completion.

After all the work that went into building it, Nike had better hope its giant,
electronic mural in Toronto sells a whack of running shoes.

The mural, which covers almost the entire side of a five-storey building near
Skydome, is unusual even in the increasingly creative outdoor advertising
industry. It features a huge painting of sprinter Bruny Surin and an electronic
clock counting down the days, hours, minutes and seconds until the 100-metre
event at the summer Olympics in Sydney.

Mr. Surin's name doesn't appear anywhere, which ties in with the countdown
clock. "If you don't know his name now, in [whatever the clock happens to say at
a given moment], you will," the text reads.

It's clever and, by the looks of it, darn expensive. Nike officials won't
comment on the cost, but Olga Simonovic, production manager with Nike's ad
agency, says: "It's the biggest project I've worked on."

One challenge was finding a manufacturer to produce a clock that large (the
numbers are close to two metres high). The agency tapped a local company,
Hamilton Digital Designs Ltd., which makes outdoor advertising displays and
video scoreboards used at hockey rinks.

The company, which was founded in Hamilton but has since moved to nearby
Burlington, delivered the clock about 10 weeks after getting the order.

Despite its size, the clock uses surprisingly little electricity. Brian Nugent,
Hamilton's sales manager, says it draws just 1,100 watts - equivalent to 11
100-watt lightbulbs. That's because LEDs are highly efficient; most of the
energy they use is converted to light.

Another thing about the LED numbers: They won't need maintenance and will remain
bright for many years - long after Mr. Surin hangs up his running shoes.

So what will Nike do with the numbers after the Olympics?

"My boyfriend wants them for the rec room, but I think they're a little too
large," Ms. Simonovic says.
   Speaking of creative outdoor ads, sex toy merchant Lovecraft has relocated
its store down the block in Toronto. To announce the move, it's running
street-level ads that say: "We've gone down on Yorkville." In case you missed
that ultra subtle sexual reference, the ads also exhort consumers to "Come visit
our new location."
   Investors aren't the only ones tiring of the dot-com craze. Hoping to exploit
the public's sense of dot-com overload, advertisers are rolling out campaigns
that mock society's obsession with the Internet.

Nestlé Canada, for instance, is running outdoor ads for its Kit Kat chocolate
bar that read, "Give.com us.com a.com break.com."

Fashion firm Kenneth Cole distributed newspaper inserts asking, "Dear Internet
Addicts, what is the world .com-ing to?" and referring to a fictitious Web site,
how-to-destroy-your-social-life.com.

Its own Web address, kennethcole.com, was displayed prominently, of course.
   An Internet site where ad types trashed each other's work disappeared
yesterday after a story about it appeared in The Globe and Mail. A note left on
the site Wednesday said it would be moving to an undisclosed location because a
reporter had been nosing around. Anybody got the new address?
John Heinzl can be reached by e-mail at jheinzl@globeandmail.ca

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2000 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             343 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          February 9, 2000, Wednesday

BUSINESS BRIEFS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 038

LENGTH: 272 words


Shoes drop

Nike Inc. warned that retailers' plans to close hundreds of sporting-goods
stores will hurt earnings this fiscal year and next, sending Nike shares down as
much as 20 percent. Nike dropped $7.50 to $37.75 after falling to $36.12,
erasing $2.5 billion in value, the biggest one-day drop in 17 years.

Cisco earns

Cisco Systems Inc. said fiscal second-quarter earnings rose and revenue climbed
53 percent. It also set a 2-for-1 stock split. Net income rose to $825 million,
or 23 cents a share, from $282 million, or 8 cents, a year ago. Profit excluding
acquisition expenses was $906 million, or 25 cents vs. $609 million, or 17
cents.

Smoke suit

U.S. tobacco companies were accused by cigarette wholesalers in a class-action
lawsuit of meeting in secret since at least the 1980s to fix cigarette prices.
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings Inc. and Philip Morris denied wrongdoing. Also
named as defendants are British American Tobacco PLC's Brown & Williamson
Tobacco Corp. unit, Loews Corp.'s Lorillard Inc. and Liggett Group.

Merger move

America Online Inc. and Time Warner Inc. are preparing to add to their
investment adviser team amid signs that a rival bidder could break up their
merger, the Financial Times reported.

Fraud plea

A former vice president and senior financial consultant for Merrill Lynch in
Boston pleaded guilty to federal fraud charges for bilking clients of nearly
$6.3 million. Prosecutors said Donald J. Martineau, 56, of Tewksbury, Mass.,
convinced clients to invest funds, diverted the money, then lost nearly all the
money through risky trading of stocks and options.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                             345 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                           December 18, 2000, Monday

NIKE'S NEW GAME PLAN

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 036

LENGTH: 192 words


LAST February, the sneaker giant got kicked, sacked and dunked when it announced
earnings would fall short of Wall Street's expectations.

Stock of the Beaverton, Ore. -based company plummeted almost 50 percent and hit
a 52-week low of $26.56 -- seeing billions in capitalization disappear in its
biggest drop in more than a decade

Then image issues piled on: Nike fielded a $10 million suit filed by a Manhattan
doctor, another suit filed by guitarist Bo Diddley and heaps of criticism
concerning allegations of Indonesian sweat shops.

But CEO Phil Knight seems to have coached his company back from the brink. Its
market cap is up to $11.55 billion; shares are trading at TK.

This year, Nike branched out. It announced the formation of a new high-tech
electronics division, responsible for portable audioplayers, heart-rate monitors
and two-way radios. It launched a line of futuristic watches and other
accessories.

When Nike reports earnings tomorrow -- in a conference call and simultaneous
Webcast -- analysts are expecting to see 44 cents of profit per share. They're
pegging next year's profit at $2.35.

Will Nike just do it?

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                             346 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 11, 2000, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

Nike makes numbered shoe sizes vanish with Air Presto

BYLINE: Michael McCarthy

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 566 words


Nike is moving from Just Do It to If the Shoe Fits.

The athletic company will turn traditional shoe sizing on its
head this spring with a unisex running shoe that comes in 13 colors
but just six sizes: XXS, XS, S, M, L and XL. For a male, for example,
a medium fits traditional sizes 9-11.


The "Air Presto " shoe hits stores June 1 with a suggested retail
price of $ 85. The lightweight slip-on, in development for four
years, uses "stretch mesh" to create what Nike says is a "sock-like,
ultracomfortable fit for a variety of foot shapes and sizes."

Nike has even coined a catchy slogan: "T-shirts for your feet."

"This is a first for Nike. You see it with socks and slippers,
but nobody's ever done this with an athletic shoe before," notes
Tobie Hatfield, senior advanced engineer at Beaverton, Ore.-based
Nike.

Can Nike actually wean consumers from numbered sizes? The answer
is open to debate, experts say.

"Nike is breaking every paradigm we're used to," says marketing
consultant Ken Harris of Evanston, Ill.-based Cannondale Associates.
"This will either be a big hit or a huge failure."

Hatfield says Air Prestos fit better than "overbuilt" shoes.
"This is a new paradigm. We're trying to let your foot be in
control of the footwear rather than the footwear being in control
of your foot."

Nike is positioning it as "irresistible summertime comfort for
runners." But runners are a notoriously finicky and brand-loyal
market.

"Real runners tend to be very loyal to a particular shoe. If
they like it, they buy it over and over," notes John Horan, editor
of newsletter Sporting Goods Intelligence.

Nike tested Air Prestos with more than 30 athletes, including
masters triathlete Don Ardell, who wore them to victory in two
international competitions. Ardell has requested several pairs
for the upcoming world championships in Perth, Australia, says
spokesman Dave Mingey.

Nike will provide retailers with point-of-sale charts and other
materials to help customers pick sizes.

What about a consumer on the cusp between sizes? "It comes down
to personal preference," says Hatfield. "Do you like your footwear
tighter or a little bit looser?"

Experts say Nike's sizing scheme has big potential benefits for
the company and retailers. By making the shoes unisex, Nike wipes
out "half its inventory" and halves its production costs, notes
Harris. Retailers, meanwhile, "have less sizes to inventory,
which is an obvious benefit for them," says Hatfield.

The Air Presto rollout will be backed with a multimillion-dollar
advertising and promotional campaign by Nike ad agency Wieden
& Kennedy.

If the ads successfully sell the message that Air Prestos "conform
to your foot and become your shoe," the line will be a hit, predicts
Harris, himself a runner currently training for the Boston Marathon.
But if consumers' takeaway is that they should try Air Prestos
because they're easier for Nike, "they will never get on people's
feet."

The branded sneaker market needs a hit. It is coming off several
lean years and the loss of several retailers. Sales grew 2.7%
in 1999 to $ 7.6 billion, SGI says.

"Business has absolutely improved," says Horan. "We've had
an early spring and there's been a contraction in retail footage.
The retailers that are left are seeing their margins go up."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color; Air Presto: Nike's unisex running shoe features stretch
mesh fabric and comes in just six sizes: XXS, XS, S, M, L, XL.

                      Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.


                             348 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                           September 15, 2000, Friday

TIGER OKS NIKE DEAL FOR 100M

BYLINE: By LEO STANDORA DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER With News Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 301 words

Tiger Woods will be crowned the undisputed king of celebrity endorsements in a
few days when he signs a $100 million contract with Nike, it was reported
yesterday.

The 24-year-old golf superstar will pocket the payout over five years, a source
close to negotiations told The Associated Press.

The package would dwarf the contract for $80 million over seven years that
Detroit Pistons star Grant Hill has with Fila Sportswear.

Retired Michael Jordan, whose endorsement deals raised the bar in sports, also
had a $20 million-a-year agreement with Nike.

Woods' agent Mark Steinberg declined to talk specifics of the package, but
called it an "outstanding contract." He added, "We are within days of a
signature."

The eye-popping offer caps a record-breaking summer on the links for Woods.

With three tournaments still to play, his nine victories this year are the most
in one PGA Tour season since 1950, and he is on pace to shatter the all-time
season-scoring average set by Byron Nelson in 1945. In just four years, he has
won all four major championships - the youngest player to do so.

Woods has represented Nike since turning professional in 1996. His previous
contract with the sportswear company was said to be worth about $8 million
annually.

Earlier this year, Woods signed a five-year, $3 million endorsement deal with
Buick. In all, Woods has endorsement contracts with 11 companies.

The new Nike contract might be worth more than its face value, a source told The
AP, because "there are so many different revenue streams. It's impossible to
calculate what the end result will be."

Nike Golf President Bob Wood described the contract as "pretty creative."

Wood also declined to discuss contract details but did say the amount would be
partly tied to sales.


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tiger Woods

                        Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.


                             354 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                      June 20, 2000 Tuesday Final Edition

Woods does a job for Nike ball

SOURCE: The Edmonton Journal

SECTION: Sports; Pg. D6

LENGTH: 38 words

DATELINE: Beaverton, Ore.

Nike Golf makes the ball Woods used to win the 100th U.S. Open by a
record-breaking 15 strokes at Pebble Beach on Sunday. By using the Nike golf
ball, Woods turned his sponsor into a major industry player almost overnight.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Sports; Brief

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             365 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 28, 2000, Thursday

UNITED SET FOR POUNDS 300M NIKE DEAL

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 87

LENGTH: 137 words


REPORTS suggest that Manchester United are poised to announce an amazing pounds
300million kit deal with Nike.

The American sportswear giants are believed to have agreed a 15-year link-up
with the Premiership champions that could be rubber-stamped as early as next
week.

United still have two years left to run on their current contract with Umbro,
but Nike are determined to establish themselves as the leading force in the
ever-growing world-wide football market.

The firm already sponsor Brazil's national team to the tune of just under pounds
7million-a-year.

And they now want to tie up a similar agreement with the world's most famous
club side.

Sir Alex Ferguson is also believed to have been offered an "ambassadorial" role
with the firm when he steps down as the Red Devils' manager.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited


                             366 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           September 5, 2000 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

Nike put on Games labour notice;
Olympics 10 Days to go

BYLINE: Tom Allard

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 425 words


Nike-sponsored athletes including the Australian Olympic team should reconsider
their relationship with the sportswear giant in light of claims of labour
abuses, a human rights group said yesterday.

Launching its anti-Nike campaign to run during the Olympic Games, Community Aid
Abroad-Oxfam's NikeWatch group released a damning report into the company's
remaining factories in Indonesia, with claims of $2-a-day wages, long hours and
anti-union policies.

After a high-profile campaign and consumer boycotts in the 1990s, Nike pulled
out of the Indonesian factories targeted, signed covenants against child labour
with US President Bill Clinton and implemented an independent monitoring scheme.

But, according to NikeWatch and its report, Like Cutting Bamboo, the problems
with labour standards persist in the remaining Indonesian shoe, garment and
sporting goods factories.

Wages are so substandard at all three factories surveyed that even a childless
worker has to put in 60 or 70 hours a week, plus overtime, to to earn enough to
feed, clothe and house themselves and save a small amount.

The report also documented shouts of abuse at slow workers by supervisors who
called them "monkey", "pig" or "dog". It said pro-union workers had been
subjected to discrimination and access to union officials had been curtailed.
"At the very least, we would like [sponsored athletes] to raise the issue with
Nike," said the co-ordinator of NikeWatch, Mr Tim Connor.

"Even better would be if they would come and see the situation for themselves
and meet with the workers."

The findings in NikeWatch's report were based on visits by activists,
declarations by Indonesian unionists and research by a former professional
United States soccer player, Mr Jim Keady, who spent time as a worker on local
wages in an Indonesia factory.

NikeWatch also called on the company to sign the Australian Homeworkers code of
conduct, which rejects the use of poorly paid pieceworkers operating out of
home, and to introduce more stringent monitoring.

Nike's labour practices are audited by accountancy firm PriceWaterhouseCoopers
and by non-government organisations. The company forbids children under 16
working in its factories and the use of outworkers, but Mr Connor said Nike's
monitoring was inadequate, infrequent and easily circumvented.

He said Nike didn't allow monitoring by groups it "doesn't control" and the
monitoring often failed to interview production line workers.

Nike said its labour practices were more closely scrutinised than virtually any
company's on the planet.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             370 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           November 20, 2000, Monday

FIFA clamps down on Brazilians

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 168 words


THE International Football Federation (FIFA) is set to block recent "serious
interference" by two Brazilian parliamentary commissions into the country's
football federation, FIFA secretary general Michel Zen-Ruffinen said yesterday.

"According to the information we have, we don't believe there is a real need to
interfere, but we hope to obtain more information from the CBF," Zen-Ruffinen
said in Guatemala.

A parliamentary inquiry was launched to investigate the mammoth contract, worth
a reported $230m, signed between the CBF and American sportswear giants Nike.

The inquiry is trying to determine if Brazil's 10-year contract with Nike might
harm the Brazilian game's interests and give Nike too much say in where they
play and when.

"Quite naturally, we are following developments because, apparently, there is
significant political intereference," said Zen-Ruffinen, adding that FIFA
regulations formally ban all political or judiciary interference in affiliated
federations.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             373 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                            June 21, 2000, Wednesday

SORRY AD UPSETS ACTIVISTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 82 words


NIKE is under fire for using Cathy Freeman in a TV commercial featuring the word
sorry 15 times.

She plays only a minor role in the ad but the timing of its release has stung
Aboriginal activists.

National Sorry Day Committee chairwoman Audrey Kinnear said Nike was trying to
exploit the reconciliation process and the continuous use of the word
trivialised the issue.

Nike Olympics spokes woman Megan Ryan said the timing of the "No apologies"
commercial was coincidental.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             374 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            July 19, 2000 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Super suit holds promise of life in the fast lane

BYLINE: JACQUELIN MAGNAY Olympics Writer

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 247 words


The neck-to-ankle fashion has switched from the swimming pool to the athletics
track with this radical "Swift Suit", to be available to the Australian Olympic
track and field team.

The Nike-designed suit is the most spectacular piece in an otherwise
conservative collection of sporting apparel for the 650-strong Australian team,
unveiled yesterday.

Australia's 400m world champion Cathy Freeman, a Nike-sponsored athlete and the
wife of a Nike executive, has been experimenting with the suit, but has yet to
wear it in a race.

In a statement she said: "You feel like you are slicing through the air."

Some athletes find the suit awkward because they feel like they are wearing
nothing, or find the material around their knees uncomfortable.

The suit is made of five types of fabric with varying textures to maximise
aerodynamics, muscle temperature and the effect of the wind. For instance the
hands are covered with a low-friction fabric, some of the back section is mesh
to keep the large back muscles cool, and most seams are at the back to reduce
drag.

No-one is saying how many athletes will wear the suit at the Games, with most
expected to adopt the traditional one- or two-piece outfits, which were also
unveiled yesterday.

As for the casual wear, and softball, table tennis and soccer outfits, think
school sports uniform circa 1977.

In the sports where looks really count synchronised swimming and gymnastics the
uniforms will be appropriately flash.

Maggie Alderson's verdict Page 6

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: Second skin ... athlete Scott Ferrier shows off the radical
Swift Suit unveiled yesterday, along with the uniforms for Australia's Olympic
team.Photograph by JESSICA HROMAS CARTOON: CATHY WILCOX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             375 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

This costs US$ 2.20 to make ... and sells for US$ 120. Why?

                                 June 20, 2000

Tracy Quek


The huge difference is the work of value creators, a minister tells PSC
scholars, adding that such people will be key to helping S'pore become a KBE

A PAIR of Nike running shoes can sell at Nike Town, the brand's flagship store
in New York, for US$ 120 (S$ 208). But it costs US$ 2.20 for factory workers in
China to make the same pair.

So, why are consumers willing to fork out so much to sport Nike's trademark
swoosh on their feet?

Minister of State for Communications and Information Technology and Trade and
Industry Lim Swee Say posed this question to some 150 Public Service Commission
scholars at a seminar yesterday.

This was the first of many homespun analogies and anecdotes he used when he
spent more than an hour giving scholars an insight into what makes the new
knowledge-based economy tick.

Businesses like Nike owe their success to value creators -people behind the
scenes who come up with convincing marketing strategies, up-to-date design and
cutting-edge technology.

These highly-skilled knowledge workers, who are responsible for creating a
product's value, will be key to making Singapore a successful knowledge-based
economy in the 21st century, said Mr Lim.

"Nike is driven by strong advertising and marketing. People see Tiger Woods
wearing a Nike cap and think if they wear the cap, they can play like him ... So
people buy it," said the avid golfer.

In an economy driven by globalisation and technology, advertising and the
ability to innovate quickly can be more important than the product itself, he
said.

To prepare workers here for this trend, there must be a strong focus on
education and training, he added.

However, as Singapore advances towards the new economy, there are several
stumbling blocks, he said.

Structural unemployment, the widening wage gap, the digital divide and an ageing
population -all these, if left unchecked, could become obstacles to Singapore's
success.

The solution is to develop and nurture value creators. But first, mindsets must
change, he explained.

"Many times when we don't know the right answer, we keep quiet. But if we think
we have the correct answer, we raise our hands to score points."

This attitude has to go, he said. In the new economy, decisions will be made
based on imperfect knowledge.

"Most of the time, you will have to rely on only 50 to 70 per cent of knowledge.
You won't know exactly how to do things, but you must still try."

Workers should not try to second-guess their bosses and only present what they
think their bosses want, but must be active value creators.

Although the widening wage gap may pose a problem in future, he said he does not
foresee the introduction of a minimum-wage law.

"For 35 years, we've done well without such a law. The best way is to pay
workers according to productivity."

He suggested, instead, a minimum-skills level to help workers stay employable.

SECTION: Home; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 487 words

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


                             377 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 14, 2000, Sunday

BECKS RAP FOR NOT TOEING THE LINE

BYLINE: Shaun Milne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 252 words


DAVID Beckham has infuriated his pounds 1 million-a-year boot sponsors Adidas by
wearing their arch rival's trainers.

And, even worse, photographs of him in the trendy blue Nike shoes, were
published worldwide.

The Manchester United ace put his foot in it while kicking a toy football about
in California with baby son Brooklyn.

For he is currently starring in a major TV commercial campaign for Adidas in the
run-up to the Euro 2000 soccer championship this summer. The German sportswear
giant refused to comment yesterday.

But an insider said: "They are livid that Beckham was playing football in a
public place wearing a pair of Nike sports shoes. He is paid around pounds 1
million a year to wear Adidas Predator football boots on the pitch. And it is
part of his contract not to wear sportswear of any of their major competitors.

"There will be some stern words with Beckham's people to stop this happening
again."

A Nike spokesman said last night: "We are delighted that David Beckham chooses
to wear Nike products in his own time.

"The trainers David was pictured wearing are a pounds 35 pair of Nike Air Sock
Mock soccer sandals."

And determined to put Adidas booses' noses out of joint, he added: "If David
wants to wear a pair of our Total 90 football boots at Euro 2000 we will gladly
supply him with a pair."

One-year-old Brooklyn was also wearing a pair of Nike shoes during the holiday
in America. But he doesn't have a contract with the sports firm - yet!

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BECKHAM: pounds 1m boot-ee; PUTTING THE BOOT IN: Sports rivals; Adidas
and Nike

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             378 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                              May 19, 2000, Friday

Ball battle

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 78

LENGTH: 68 words


HAMBURG: Tiger Woods used the Nike ball in his pro-am round before the European
Tour Players' Championship yesterday, which could end his tenuous relationship
with Titleist and make Nike Golf a force in the equipment industry.

Woods reportedly used a version of the Nike Tour Accuracy at the tournament
where he is the defending champion. It was not clear if it violated his contract
with Titleist.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             379 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                         April 17, 2000, Monday, FINAL

Nike don't know Diddley

BYLINE: Herald News Services

SECTION: Entertainment; F5

LENGTH: 136 words


Nike has hit a sour note with guitar legend Bo Diddley, 71, who is suing the
clothing and athletic shoe company because, he says, last year it marketed
nearly 28,000 T-shirts with his name, face and the slogan, ''You Don't Know
Diddley.''

In a suit filed in Manhattan Federal Court, Diddley (real name Ellas McDaniel)
says he did have an agreement with Nike, but that was in 1989 and it was only
set to last two years. The company allegedly contacted Diddley's managers last
year about manufacturing more of the shirts, but the two sides did not come to
terms. The musician claims the company ignored letters to cease and desist
selling the shirts, and a rep for Diddley's management told The New York Times,
''This is a clear case of a big bully picking on the little guy.'' No comment
from Nike.


LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: P Photo: Bo Diddley

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             380 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          September 27, 2000 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Gold medal nets $400,000 and that's just for starters;
Cathy's Crown Sponsorship Olympics Sport

BYLINE: Andrew Hornery

SECTION: OLYMPICS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 434 words


Cathy Freeman is expected to pocket more than $400,000 in special oneoff
payments from her sponsors as well as boost her earning power up to tenfold
following Monday night's gold medal win.

Oneoff success payments are a standard feature in sponsorship contracts between
companies and sporting stars of Freeman's calibre.

But it is just a drop in the ocean compared with the millions of dollars she is
expected to earn as her profile soars.

Freeman's sponsors Nike, Qantas and Optus were reluctant to discuss the finer
points of their arrangements with the runner yesterday.

Nor would they speculate on looming price increases as Freeman's contracts come
up for review, with industry expectations that Freeman's earning power will
catapult from $1million a year to 10 times that over the next three years.

Nike was capitalising on Freeman's success just hours after her win by placing
new billboards around the Sydney CBD featuring Freeman in her "swift" body suit
and another one saying "Official supplier of joy to the Sydney 2000 Olympic
Games".

The company also aired a new commercial based around images from Freeman's photo
album which catalogued the star's life from her childhood days to athletic
career. The ad aired in the first ad break after Freeman's win.

"Nike has a longterm relationship with Cathy and we definitely see that
continuing," said Nike spokeswoman Ms Megan Ryan.

"We can't discuss the specifics of our athletes' contracts, but it is often the
case that special incentives are offered when you break a world record or win a
grand final."

Freeman's contracts with Nike and Qantas are due to expire in December while her
deal with Optus will be reviewed next month.

Optus's marketing director, Mr Stephen Cameron, said yesterday he would be
"naive" not to expect Freeman's sponsorship fee to increase following the Sydney
Games.

"There was some talk that she might retire at the end of the year, that means we
would have to consider our strategy if she was no longer competing," he said.

Freeman's future "marketability" looks assured after her gold medal.

According to court documents filed in July by Freeman's former managers Mr Nick
Bideau and Mr Peter Jess, Freeman earned $3.41million in the three years before
the Sydney Games. The court case has been held over until after the Games.

Some sports marketing executives were reported yesterday as claiming that
Freeman was not as marketable as swimmer Ian Thorpe because she lacked Thorpe's
confidence in the public eye and eloquence.

But others said yesterday that her uniqueness and her naturalness were far
worthier qualities to a sponsor.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             381 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                             May 20, 2000, Saturday

Woods plays ball with Nike

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 150

LENGTH: 313 words


FOR the first time in 98 tournaments around the world, Tiger Woods yesterday
played golf with a "swoosh" instead of a Titleist.

In the latest and loudest shot fired in the golf ball wars, Woods experimented
with a Nike ball in the first round of the Deutsche Bank Open in Hamburg,
leaving Nike hopeful it could use his massive appeal to grab a greater market
share.

"If he decides to switch, it's an earthquake," said Nike Golf president Bob
Wood.

Whether either happens remains to be seen.

After a two-under 70 that left him three strokes behind first round leader
Miguel Jiminez, Woods said he had been experimenting with a version of the Nike
Tour Accuracy ball in the past few months at his home course outside Orlando,
Florida.

"I wanted a test round on the tour," Woods said.

"If I think it's viable to switch, I'll switch. If not, I'll go back to my
ball."

Woods has a five-year deal with Titleist that pays him $3.52m a year to use its
clubs and balls.

But industry sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, have said he has an
escape clause that would allow him to terminate the deal on short notice. "It's
in my contract that I can try any ball," Woods said.

For Woods to change could be just what Nike needs to move into the highly
competitive -- and highly profitable -- golf ball industry.

* AMERICAN John Cook shot a four-under 66 to take a one-stroke lead after the
first round of the Colonial tournament in Fort Worth, Texas.

Spurred on by an eagle two on the par-four sixth hole, Cook equalled his lowest
score of the year to gain a one-shot edge over eight players including 1987
Colonial champion Keith Clearwater along with Davis Love III and Phil Mickelson
-- the two losers in last week's play-off at the Nelson Classic.

Robert Allenby, Stuart Appleby and Steve Elkington head the Aussie assault five
shots back.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             383 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            April 27, 2000, Thursday

NIKE RIPS INTO WAL-MART FOR SELLING CHEAP KNOCK-OFFS

BYLINE: DEVLIN BARRETT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 050

LENGTH: 316 words


Archrivals Nike and Adidas teamed up yesterday to sue Wal-Mart, charging the
discount department store is selling counterfeit T-shirts and other items
bearing their company logos.

Wal-Mart "has engaged, and is continuing to engage, in the knowing and
intentional use of counterfeits," claims the suit filed in Manhattan federal
court.

The sports equipment companies charge the store also peddles trademark rip-offs
at their Sam's Club subsidiary's outlets.

The suit doesn't seek a specific figure in damages, but demands $1 million for
each "type" of counterfeit item sold.

Nike and Adidas also want the court to force Wal-Mart to destroy any counterfeit
products or advertisements it still has.

"It's the same old story with this company," said Steven Gursky, who filed the
suit against Wal-Mart and has taken them to court over similar complaints
brought by Tommy Hilfiger, Polo and Nautica.

"It's staggering that a company like Wal-Mart would do this and advertise this
[counterfeit] stuff to bring in customers to sell all the other junk they have
in their stores," Gursky said.

"It's horrendous, and it's worse than the street counterfeiters," fumed the
lawyer. "When you walk into Wal-Mart, you don't even stop to think about the
possibility of getting ripped off, because they're the great American brand.
What they're doing is making absolutely no effort to avoid infringing other
people's rights," he said. "Then they walk into court and say aeyour honor, we
are bad boys ... we are changing our policy.'"

Wal-Mart officials denied the charges and said they follow rigid inspection
procedures to root out any counterfeits.

"We have no reason to believe that the merchandise we have sold is not 100
percent authentic," said spokesman Les Copeland. "If we're not sure about the
origin of merchandise, then we just don't buy it."


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHIL KNIGHT Calls foul. AP

           Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                             385 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                              June 9, 2000, Friday

Sign up to the No Sweat code, Nike. Just do it

BYLINE: Jill Singer

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 587 words


NIKE is not my idea of a good corporate citizen.

This week the massive sportswear company was forced to admit it has breached
Australian workplace laws and it handed over $15,000 to the Textile Clothing and
Footwear Union in an out-of-court settlement.

Ouch! That must have hurt -- about as much as being flogged with a warm lettuce
leaf.

I can just imagine Nike executives dismissing that sum as being roughly
equivalent to a round of drinks.

Nike has no factory in Australia. It does, however, have an untold number of
Australians sewing an untold number of garments for it -- products such as AFL
and rugby league merchandise.

Nike hires all its Australian production out to contractors, who are then free
to sub-contract in an employment system which makes the monitoring of working
conditions extremely difficult.

How can we be sure that some poor migrants haven't turned their homes into
sweatshops for paltry pay?

As the law stands, all companies which farm work out to contractors are required
to register with the Australian Industrial Relations Commission and to provide
the AIRC with lists of contractors.

Nike says the fact that it failed to comply with these requirements was a mere
"administrative oversight".

Company spokeswoman Megan Ryan said the case the textiles union brought against
Nike was "never about outworkers". She said Nike has contractual obligations
with all its manufacturers that it will "comply with our no-homeworker
obligation".

Sure, Nike makes its contractors sign such an agreement, but what are they
worth?

The textiles union says it has evidence that outworkers have been employed here
to produce Nike products and was ready to produce it if the court case had gone
ahead.

The union is not against outworking as such, but is concerned with ensuring such
workers are not exploited.

Community Aid Abroad has been monitoring Nike for years and lists its concerns
about the company on its Internet site, www.caa.org.au/campaigns/nike/.

There you can read claims by US human rights and labor groups that Nike has
contracts with about 50 factories in China and that workers at its Sewon factory
are paid about US 26 cents an hour.

It is not difficult to work out why 40 per cent of Nike shoes are made in China.

One group visited the Sewon factory in July last year and reported that although
the temperature was over 35 deg., the factory had no airconditioning.

For its part, Nike insists it has the highest of ethical standards on work
practices and that it has moved to abolish the exploitation of child labor.

You wonder, though, what constitutes exploitation of adults by China's
standards.

In December 1996 a joint employer-union organisation called the Homeworkers'
Code of Practice committee was formed to monitor outworking in Australia.

Adidas and Reebok have signed an agreement to abide by the code the committee
drew up. But even after this week's admission that it has broken Australia's
employment laws, Nike won't sign up.

It has, however, finally provided the AIRC with a list of its contractors. It
shows Nike pays a host of small companies to arrange to make garments for
sporting teams such as Melbourne Storm, the Brisbane Broncos, Canberra Raiders,
Carlton and Port Adelaide.

Come December, you'll be able to determine which companies have signed up by
looking for a "No Sweat" label on their clothing.

It would make good PR sense for Nike to just do it, sign the code and join the
"No Sweat" campaign.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             387 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                    August 30, 2000 Wednesday Final Edition

Carter puts Puma troubles behind him and joins Nike

SOURCE: Canadian Press

SECTION: Sports; Pg. A49

LENGTH: 406 words

Vince Carter's problems with Puma appear to be over.

The Toronto Raptors superstar has signed a six-year endorsement contract worth
$30 million US ( $44.5 million Cdn) with Nike, according to a report on
HoopsTV.com.

The king of shoe marketing, Nike sales have slumped in recent years and its
stock prices have fallen about 29 per cent over the past 12 months.

Signing Carter would be a major coup for Nike, giving the shoe giant perhaps the
NBA's most popular and dominant player to market its products since Michael
Jordan.

Quoting anonymous sources, the report said between $18 to $20 million of the $30
million will go to Puma to free Carter from his previous shoe contract.

But lawyer Norman Oberstein, from the firm Oberstein, Kibre and Horowitz that
represents Puma, said there isn't any agreement yet.

Talks are progressing "satisfactorily," Oberstein told the Canadian Press news
service from Los Angeles.

"There isn't anything pending. We're just trying to work things out and
hopefully we will."

The relationship between Carter and Puma soured last season, when the player
complained about the footwear the company provided him.

This summer, an arbitrator ruled that Carter owes Puma $13.5 million for
breaching his endorsement contract by publicly denouncing Puma's shoes and
negotiating with other companies while under contract.

The ruling also said Carter was responsible for Puma's legal fees (about $1
million) and prohibited him from signing an endorsement deal with another
company for three years.

Oberstein said Carter would need permission from Puma to negotiate with Nike.

When asked if Puma had granted him that permission, he refused to comment,
saying only that any agreement would be announced promptly.

The report said the three sides were ironing out the final details of the deal,
with Puma demanding a cut of royalties generated by Carter's future with Nike
shoes.

Nike spokesman Eric Oberman refused to say whether Nike has been negotiating
with Carter.

"We don't comment on rumours or speculation and we have absolutely nothing to
announce at this point," Oberman said in a telephone interview from Portland,
Ore.

Carter's agent, IMG's Mark Steinberg, was travelling and unavailable for
comment.

Carter is currently in Hawaii training with the U.S. Olympic team.

HoopsTV.com is a 24-hour basketball news and entertainment Web site.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: (Vince) Carter, jumps ship

TYPE: Sports

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             388 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                      June 22, 2000 Thursday FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS BRIEFS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 423 words


Nike case goes to state Supreme Court

The California Supreme Court agreed Wednesday to hear an appeal by a consumer
advocate who claims sneaker manufacturer Nike's defense of its Asian factories
violates laws against false advertising. A lower appeals court ruled in Nike's
favor March 20, saying the company's defense of its Asian wages and benefits was
speech on a public policy issue and was protected by the First Amendment.

Legal

SEX BIAS: A federal court ruled Wednesday that United Airlines discriminated
against female flight attendants from 1989 to 1994 by requiring them to stay
thinner than their male counterparts. The 2-1 decision by the U.S. 9th Circuit
Court of Appeals clears the way for money to be awarded to an undetermined
number of the 16,000 stewardesses who worked for United during that time.

FREQUENT FLIERS: American Airlines' frequent fliers stand to gain hundreds of
millions of dollars worth of extra mileage credit or fare discounts, in a
proposed settlement of two class-action lawsuits. The suits allege that American
improperly changed the terms of its frequent-flier program.

Internet

INTEL DEVICE: Semiconductor giant Intel Corp. today is starting to sell a simple
device designed just for accessing the Internet that will be marketed to
consumers by banks, retailers and Internet service providers. Intel is not
marketing its 16-inch-high device, dubbed the Intel Dot.Station, directly to
consumers, who would use it to browse the Internet, check e-mail and keep a
household calendar. Instead, it is talking to companies ranging from Internet
service providers to banks and online retailers who would then resell or give
away the Dot.Station.

GAS SALE: Priceline.com Inc. will start selling gasoline today after signing up
more than a million customers for the service.

Semiconductors

PURCHASE: Semiconductor giant Texas Instruments Inc. said Wednesday it will buy
Burr-Brown Corp., a maker of semiconductors, for $7.6 billion in stock.

Wire reports

TO READERS

The Times is introducing this week several improvements to our daily Business
section. First, the stock tables are expanded by approximately 25 percent, with
significant increases in Nasdaq listings. And we have added the Times East Bay
50, with more data on the stocks of the 50 largest companies in this region. We
also are adding a daily roundup of national business briefs and a rotating set
of columnists, including today's column from Scott Herhold of the San Jose
Mercury News, who writes Stocks.comment.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 Contra Costa Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             390 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                          September 16, 2000, Saturday

Europe and Asia give Nike a flyer

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 112

LENGTH: 183 words


AS THE Olympics opens with one of the biggest advertising blitzes in Nike
history, the athletics shoemaker reported first-quarter profits of $378.7
million, beating Wall Street expectations.

The earnings of $1.40 per share compare with $360.7 million, or $1.27 per share,
in the year-ago quarter.

Analysts surveyed had pegged earnings at $1.35 per share.

Sales for the quarter rose 5 per cent to $4.69 billion.

"We're off to a good start for the fiscal year," said Nike chairman Phil Knight,
who just returned from Australia in preparation for the annual shareholders
meeting on Monday.

Asia and South America showed the biggest growth while European sales remained
strong, but shoe sales fell again in the US, falling 1 per cent to $1.69
trillion. US clothing sales also were off 2 per cent to $587.92 million.

The earnings report was issued with some of the top names in sports -- including
sprinter Cathy Freeman -- flashing the "swoosh" logo worldwide in television
commercials preceding the opening of the Olympic Games in Sydney, Australia.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             393 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 1, 2000, Sunday

FOOTBALL: NIKE STUNNER

BYLINE: Paul Smith

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 79

LENGTH: 88 words


AMERICAN giants Nike are ready to make an audacious bid to clinch a pounds
200million deal to sponsor England.

In a week when they have made a mind-blowing attempt to snatch Umbro's shirt
deal with Man United, we can reveal they are poised to inflict further damage on
the English-based company by opening negotiations to take over their contract
with the national side.

Representatives from Nike have already discussed the prospect of a 10-year deal
with the FA. Umbro's current contract expires in two years.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             394 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                               September 21, 2000

Nike withdraws horror ad

BYLINE: By BERNICE HARRISON

SECTION: CITY EDITION; BUSINESS & FINANCE; ADVERTISING/MARKETING; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 121 words


The first ad loser of the Olympic Games is Nike which this week withdrew an ad
after complaints from more than 2,000 NBC viewers. The ad, a parody of horror
film Friday the 13th, shows a masked man with a chainsaw chasing a scantily clad
woman, who escapes in her Nike trainers.

Bewley's is spending (pounds) 200,000 on its first television, radio and outdoor
campaign. It's to advertise its promotion with Person 2 Person, the mobile phone
retailers. The promotion involves tokens redeemable against a Speakeasy phone.

The newly named QMP D'Arcy has picked up the VHI account after a four-way pitch
which included the incumbents, CDP, and McConnells. The changeover was speedy
and the new agency has already started work.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2000 The Irish Times


                             395 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 7, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NIKE PROBES REPORT OF TOXIC CHEMICAL

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 135 words


Nike said Thursday that it was investigating whether some of its products were
treated with a toxic anti-bacterial chemical that can cause serious health
problems at high levels in humans. The probe by the Oregon-based manufacturer
follows a television report in Berlin that the yellow-and-black jerseys Nike
made for a popular German soccer club contained tributyltin, or TBT, a
heavy-metal compound used in anti-barnacle paint for ships.

Three German department store chains pulled the shirts off their shelves
Wednesday and Thursday as a precaution. At high levels in humans, TBT is
believed to cause neurological problems, damage the immune system and harm the
liver, said Juergen Kundke, a scientist with a German institute for consumer
health. The chemical is used to reduce the smell of sweat.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             398 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                      January 7, 2000 Friday Final Edition

Stink over Nike shirts

SOURCE: Torstar News Service

BYLINE: Stuart Laidlaw

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 381 words


If your shirt smells after a good run, be thankful. Nike Inc. shirts in Europe
are being recalled after a television program claimed they contain a chemical
that's supposed to keep shirts from smelling like sweat, but can also lead to
infertility.

Shirts in Canada do not contain the same chemical, a spokeswoman for Nike Canada
Ltd. said.

"None of these jerseys are sold in Canada," Michelle McSorley said.

In fact, she said, preliminary testing by the company yesterday showed that Nike
did not deliberately add the chemical in Europe, either, and that only a small
batch of clothes from factories in Italy and Britain had the chemical.

Complete test results should be available today, she said.

The shirts in question are replica soccer team shirts sold through two German
clothing store chains. Nike made the shirts and sewed on logos provided by the
soccer teams whose uniforms were being replicated.

McSorley said Nike is investigating the possibility that the chemical got on to
the shirts by way of the logos.

"We certainly would not have added it," she said, adding that concentrations of
the chemical are very low.

"This isn't a life-or-death situation."

The chemical, tributyrin, is a fungicide that removes the smell created by the
bacteria in sweat. It is often used in the shipping industry to control mould
and mildew, said Thomas Kullick, an environmental spokesman for a European
textile association. The heavy metal compound has also been used in
anti-barnacle paint for ships.

German retailer KarstadtQuelle AG has pulled all Nike soccer shirts from its
shelves, while Metro AG's Kaufhof Warenhaus AG department-store unit stopped
selling the soccer shirts and may pull the rest. A spokesman said Karstadt has
sold more than 10,000 of the shirts, which retail for about $110 apiece and are
replicas of the Borussia Dortmund soccer team's yellow-and-black kit. Karstadt
will refund or exchange shirts it has sold but has not reached an agreement with
Nike on who will pay for that.

The risks and benefits of tributyrin have been debated for years. A study of 140
snail species has shown that a high concentration of the chemical caused
infertility, which is why the World Wildlife Fund has called for a ban, the
German daily Die Welt reported.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 2000 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                             401 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                           November 20, 2000, Monday

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 294 words


Nike deal probe

THE International Football Federation is set to block recent "serious
interference" by two Brazilian parliamentary commissions into the country's
football federation. A parliamentary inquiry is trying to determine if the
Brazilian national side's lucrative 10-year $US180 million contract with Nike
might harm the country's game's interests and give Nike too much say in where
they play and when.

Champs held

A 54TH minute goal from Andriy Shevchenko earned AC Milan a 1-1 draw at
champions Lazio in a compelling Serie A match in Rome yesterday. Lazio led from
the third minute when Dino Baggio unleashed a searing drive from 30m. But
despite the explosive opening, Lazio struggled to gain control.

Celtic go ahead

HENRIK Larsson struck twice as Celtic demolished Hearts 6-1 at home yesterday to
extend their lead at the top of the Scottish Premier League. The Swedish striker
took his season total to 21 goals.

Real victory

AN own goal from former Barcelona midfielder Guillermo Amor handed Real Madrid a
1-0 win at Villarreal yesterday to take the European champions back up to within
a point of the Spanish first division leaders.

Red-faced loss

A HAT-TRICK by Danish striker Ebbe Sand helped Schalke 04 crush Hertha Berlin
4-0 yesterday to knock them off the top of the German first division. The
embarrassing defeat before a 50,000 crowd in their Olympic stadium was Hertha's
heaviest at home in 20 years.

Cup casualties

ENGLISH second division sides Colchester and Brentford were the major casualties
in the FA Cup first round yesterday, both going out to non-league sides.
Colchester were thrashed 5-1 by Nationwide Conference side Yeovil, with Warren
Patmore scoring twice. Brentford lost 3-1 at home to Kingstoniant.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             402 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 15, 2000

WOODS AMBUSHED IN NIKE PROTEST;
Sport in short

SECTION: Pg. 84

LENGTH: 262 words


TIGER WOODS, the world's No 1 golfer, had to be escorted through an angry crowd
of protesting former Nike workers who ambushed him at his Bangkok hotel.

The 100 sacked employees said they were part of a group still waiting for
compensation after being laid off by Nike in September.

Woods, who is sponsored by the clothing and footwear giant, is playing in this
week's Johnnie Walker Classic.

He said: "They have their opinions and they have the things they want to
accomplish and you can't stop them from doing that - that's their right and so
be it."

ICE HOCKEY: London Knights crashed out of the Benson & Hedges Cup last night,
losing to a Matt Oates-inspired Newcastle Jesters, writes Paul Fielder.

Newcastle, who led 3-2 from the first leg, won 5-3 on aggregate with all five of
their goals over the two legs scored by Oates.

Brendan Yarema squared the tie on aggregate for London in the second period,
before Oates struck twice to set up a final with runaway Sekonda Superleague
pacesetters Sheffield Steelers on 9 December. Newcastle's victory also proved
sweet revenge for their Superleague playoff defeat by London last April.

TENNIS: World No1 Martina Hingis swept into the quarterfinals of the WTA Chase
Championships in New York with a comfortable 6-2, 6-3 victory over France's
Julie Halard-Decugis.

A disappointed Halard-Decugis then announced her retirement after the defeat,
while Hingis waits to see whether she faces either American Amy Frazier or sixth
seed Nathalie Tauziat, of France for a place in the semis.


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             403 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                   November 8, 2000 Wednesday FINAL C EDITION

Nike ready to outfit Manchester United soccer club

SOURCE: Sun News Services

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. E7 World of Sport

LENGTH: 76 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore.


Nike is raising its profile in the world's most popular sport by signing one of
the world's richest sports endorsement deals. The Beaverton-based company will
pay nearly $675 million Cdn to outfit English soccer champion Manchester United
from 2002 to 2015 in a deal announced over the weekend. Nike and Manchester
United will evenly split any net profits, over and above the licensing fees,
from Manchester licensing, sales and retail operations.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Business; Brief; Sports

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             404 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    November 8, 2000 Wednesday FINAL EDITION

Nike to outfit Manchester United soccer club

SOURCE: Vancouver Sun

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. E7 World of Sport

LENGTH: 76 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore.


Nike is raising its profile in the world's most popular sport by signing one of
the world's richest sports endorsement deals. The Beaverton-based company will
pay nearly $675 million Cdn to outfit English soccer champion Manchester United
from 2002 to 2015 in a deal announced over the weekend. Nike and Manchester
United will evenly split any net profits, over and above the licensing fees,
from Manchester licensing, sales and retail operations.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Brief; Sports; Business

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             407 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 20, 2000

GOLDEN SPIKES

LENGTH: 490 words


From Richard Lewis athletics correspondent FOUR years ago, when the colour of
his shoes was gold, Michael Johnson secured the real thing by winning two
Olympic titles. This time, nothing will be artificial. Sportswear giant Nike has
produced a pair of 24-carat-gold-coated spikes for Johnson, who plans to bid
farewell to the Olympics with another world record.

Johnson asked Nike to make him a lighter pair of running shoes to help him soar
around Stadium Australia in the 400m. When its designer delivered the prototype,
he could not believe it.

"People think it is all about image," said Johnson. "The shoes in 1996 made such
an impact, because of the way I ran and the way they looked, and we were under
pressure to better them.

"When Nike told me they were going to make them of gold, I said, 'Boy, get on
with it'. But I won't be throwing them into the crowd afterwards because they
are a little more expensive."

The new spikes also consist of aerodynamic lace and aluminium, they weigh
116grams and Nike designer Kevin Hoffer and developer Tobie Hatfield ensured the
plate was made to accommodate Johnson's upright style.

A smile was not far away from the face of the man who lit up Atlanta with his
performances, which included a 19.32secs world-record 200m run, described as the
greatest moment in Olympic history. And when the 400m begins here on Friday
morning, he is ready to secure another momentous achievement, cracking the
43-second barrier.

Johnson smashed the world record for the distance with 43.19 at last year's
World Championships in Seville to complete his clean sweep at 200m and 400m. "I
don't need to achieve anything more," he said ominously. "I'd like my 400m
record to equal my 200m record. I want it to be so far out there that it is hard
for people to understand, and I am capable of doing it.

"It is my ambition to break 43 seconds and I'm running out of time. I'm proud of
my 400m record but I know I can do better."

The 33-year-old American made history in Atlanta by becoming the first man to
win the 400m and 200m at the same Games.

Johnson, who plans to retire next year, possibly after the Goodwill Games in
Brisbane, has cited Britain's Jamie Baulch as one of the key men to how his
final Olympic 400m race could be run. Baulch has electrifying speed during the
opening stages and Johnson said: "If Jamie gets in the final, it will make it a
faster race."

It is unlikely to change the outcome, though, even if Johnson does not agree.
"It is not a case that everyone else is simply going for silver or bronze," he
added. "Every time I run I know that if I show any vulnerability, then the
others will take advantage. I have to earn my success. "I always perform best at
the big championships and all my records have come at them. But there is less
pressure on me now because I am running in the 400m and the relay only." Two
golds, then? One for each shoe.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                             408 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                                 April 18, 2000

Next Nike promises more fireworks

BYLINE: By Glen Peters

SECTION: Sport; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 209 words


THE next Nike Cup soccer under-15 championships in November will see the
best players from all 14 states, academies and schools, representing their
respective states.

The recent championships in March saw only the 12 state soccer academy
teams competiting.

Also included in the November competition will be two other teams namely
the under-15 Armed Forces team and the under-15 Royal Malaysian Police
team.

"The players will be selected based on their performances in the under-
15 knockout championships which will see the school teams competing from
the district, state, zone and national level," said Husin Deraman,
assistant vice director for the sport division of the education ministry.

"In the meeting with the Football Association of Malaysia (FAM), we have
come to an agreement to select players born in 1985, or 14 year olds this
year, which means they will be 15 years old for next year's Nike Asia
Pacific Championships."

The move will see more talents being exposed and given a chance to
represent the country in the championships.

The Nike Cup is among the seven new competitions introduced to
schoolchildren this year under the recent partnership of the MSSM-NSC-FAM
soccer youth development project.


LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2000 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                             409 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  Korea Times

                             July 28, 2000, Friday

Air Defense System Vulnerable Due to Nike Missiles

LENGTH: 407 words


   The country's aerial defense system is showing vulnerability as Nike Hercules
missiles, the ROK Air Force's only long-range weapons against air attacks, have
become almost unusable.

The Air Force said it has failed to find the cause of a mid-air explosion of a
Nike Hercules missile that occurred off the west coast city of Taechon last
October.

Since the accident, the Air Force has sent inquiries to the U.S. Guided Missile
Command three times to discover what caused the explosion. But the U.S. command
only replied that it can't give accurate answers because its relevant department
was disbanded and manufacturers ceased production.

The Air Force says it won't be able to conduct routine drills of the U.S-made
missile for fear of recurrence of similar accidents.

Currently, South Korea has 190 Nike Hercules missiles but it is questionable
whether they could be fired in the event of an emergency. The missiles, first
developed by the United States in 1953, were transferred to the ROK Air Force by
the U.S. Forces Korea in 1965.

South Korea is the only country in the world that still deploys the almost
depleted missile. The U.S. allegedly disbanded Nike Hercules military units in
1985 and Taiwan also retired its stock in 1991.

Air Force officials complain that the 4.5-ton missile should have been replaced
long ago. It can be also used as a ground-to-ground missile.

The Defense Ministry is now pressing ahead with a major procurement project,
code-named SAM-X, to replace the outdated Nike Hercules. But military experts
say the project may be postponed due to recent domestic political developments
on the Korean peninsula.

The ministry asked the Ministry of Planning and Budget to allocate funds for the
launch of SAM-X in its 2001 budget bill. But it remains to be seen whether funds
for the project will be granted because SAM-X is given lower priority, compared
to the Air Force's next-generation FX fighter program.

U.S. Patriot, France's SAMP-T and Russia's S-300 are competing to win the 2
trillion won project.

Apart from last year's mid-air explosion, a Nike Hercules exploded in mid-flight
three seconds after it was accidentally fired from an air defense unit near a
beach in Inchon in December 1998. The explosion caused numerous fragments from
the projectile to rain down on a residential area, injuring a dozen civilians
and shattering hundreds of windows in houses and apartments.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                          Copyright 2000 Hankook Ilbo


                             413 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 24, 2000

THE RUN-FASTER SWIFT SUIT THAT LEAVES THE VEST BEHIND

BYLINE: BY RICHARD LEWIS

LENGTH: 286 words


ATHLETICS CORRESPONDENT

IT'S a far cry from the days of baggy shorts and singlet. Welcome to the Swift
Suit - the kit that's being touted as a winner for any serious athlete.

The futuristic suit offers no glimpse of well-toned flesh, but covers the head
and body with the aim of aerodynamically assisting athletes to run faster than
ever.

Even the old Lycra kit can be thrown into the dustbin, according to makers Nike.
The sportswear giant has spent two years designing the suit to reduce the
effects of altitude, wind speed, temperature and track surface during a race.

Gina Dewitt, US 800-metres runner, unveiled the suit at Nike headquarters in
Oregon. And American sprint superstar Marion Jones, the fastest woman in the
world, will also be publicising the kit that is set to take this year's Olympic
Games in Sydney by storm. "It does make me feel I will cut through the air,"
said Jones. "The suit has been made to help me run faster. That is what I think
about when I am wearing it and the reason why I like it so much."

The Swift Suit follows on the heels of state-of-the-art bodysuits by adidas and
Speedo for swimmers. These have helped break world records in the pool, while
causing fierce controversy.  Nike designer Eddie Harber said the latest
innovation was made from a mix of fabrics including nylon, polyester and mesh.
"Our idea was to take track and field where no one has gone before," said
Harber.

"Sprinters like to be hot and we spent a great deal of time concentrating on how
we could create a suit which could maintain warm muscles for an athlete."Our
answer was to use darker colours on certain parts of the suit to absorb radiant
heat from the sun."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                             414 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                January 7, 2000

Nike sports shirts in poison probe

LENGTH: 200 words


THE replica football shirts withdrawn from sale in Germany following allegations
they were poisoned are made in Britain.

Nike's world headquarters in Beaverton, Oregon, pledged a quick probe to
determine whether any of its products - including Glasgow Rangers shirts - are
laced with a toxic anti-bacterial chemical.

"We're doing independent tests on our end to ensure there is no risk to the
public," spokesman Vada Manager said.

He said it appears the shirts were made in Britain. Arsenal and Glasgow Rangers
are among the teams that wear Nike.

German department stores have already pulled Borussia Dortmund shirts off their
shelves.

The action followed a German television report that the replica shirts contained
tributyltin, a heavy metal compound used in paint for ships.

It is also used to kill bacteria and quell the smell of sweat. But British and
Dutch tests have shown it to cause mutations in marine snails, and the World
Wildlife Fund is calling for its global ban.

At high levels in humans, TBT is believed to cause neurological problems, damage
the immune system and harm the liver, said Juergen Kundke, a scientist with a
German health institute.


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.


                             415 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 18, 2000

FURY AT MAN UTD SILENCE OVER NIKE

BYLINE: DAVID HELLIER

LENGTH: 133 words


Manchester United directors refused to discuss the football club's recent GBP
300million sportswear contract with Nike at its annual shareholders' meeting
yesterday.

Shareholders' United, a pressure group formed to oppose satellite operator
BSkyB's bid to take over the club, asked if United had checked Nike's employment
practices after allegations that the sportswear group sub-contracted work to
factories that employed under-age labour.

It also wanted to know if United had an escape clause to get out of the deal if
it found anything untoward.

The United board, chaired by Professor Roland Smith, said it had been told by
lawyers that it could not give details of the 13-year agreement.

United said its charter prevented it contracting from any company using child
labour.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                             416 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     September 28, 2000, Thursday Edition 1

United get Nike kit on

SECTION: FOOTBALL SHORTS, Pg. 75

LENGTH: 92 words


   Manchester United are poised to announce an amazing £300 million kit deal
with Nike.

The American sportswear giants are believed to have agreed a 15-year link-up
with the Premiership champions which could be rubber-stamped as early as next
week.

United still have two years left to run on their current contract with Umbro.

But Nike are determined to establish themselves as the leading force in the
ever-growing world-wide football market.

The firm already sponsor Brazil's national team for just under £7 million a
year.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd


                             419 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                   November 22, 2000 Wednesday Final Edition

Nike didn't pressure Ronaldo, coach says

SOURCE: The Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. E08

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: BRASILIA


The former coach of Brazil's national soccer team denied accusations that Nike
forced Ronaldo to play against medical advice in the 1998 World Cup final.

"I am no puppet," said Mario Zagallo, who testified yesterday before a Senate
commission investigating Ronaldo's health problems before the game, which Brazil
lost 3-0 to France.

Zagallo, who now coaches Rio de Janeiro's Flamengo, told the commission he was
prepared to play Edmundo in Ronaldo's place. But, he added, Ronaldo showed up 45
minutes before the game and begged to play, assuring the coach he had been
cleared by doctors.

"He told me he was in perfect physical condition," Zagallo said.

Ronaldo, one of soccer's biggest stars, played despite mysterious convulsions
shortly before the game.

Nike, the team sponsor, has steadfastly denied that it forced Ronaldo to play in
the sport's showcase game.

The commission is expected to call Ronaldo, team doctor Lidio Toledo, Brazilian
Soccer Confederation president Ricardo Teixeira and Roberto Carlos, Ronaldo's
roommate who first reported the seizures.

The commission is also examining if the federation's sponsorship deal with Nike
gives the sportswear manufacturer the right to decide who plays on the Brazil's
national team.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 2000 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                             420 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                           August 19, 2000, Saturday

Perfect Fit

BYLINE: AMANDA RUBEN

SECTION: WEEKEND; Pg. W12

LENGTH: 410 words


WHEN it comes to fashion

make-overs, nothing has had a bigger image change than the tracksuit.

Sportswear, once the object of ridicule, has made the move from daggy to very,
very cool -- helped along by the streetwear trend.

Brands such as Nike, adidas and Fila are putting more effort into design with
the fashion-conscious gym junkie in mind.

And for those who just like to look sporty, there is a great variety of hooded
tops,

long-sleeved T-shirts, nylon jackets and track pants which wouldn't look out of
place on Chapel St. There are two ways to go: you can be inspired to join a
fitness club and get in shape for summer, or reach for the tracksuit the next
time you wake up on a lazy Sunday and can't bear the thought of stilettos and
skin-tight jeans.

STOCKISTS

Monell: 9428 9428

Puma: 1800 811 511

Nike: 9866 0333

Mooks: 9428 3948

Feathers: 9428 9833

Coral Reef: 9466 4144

Hom, at David Jones: 9643 2222

Sportsgirl: 9663 4855

DKNY, Daimaru: 9660 6666

Above right: Red Isolator Puma running shoe, $140.

Right: Rebecca: Navy one-piece bathing suit from Coral Reef, $59.95.

Ben: Alba bathing briefs from Hom, $69.95.

Below: Green Two Phat three-quarter-sleeve top from Mooks, $71.50.

Left: Rebecca: Home Run muscle tee, $39.95, and Kick Start Capri pants, $69.95,
from Monell; cushion socks from Nike, $10; X-trainers from Puma, $90.

Ben: red Knockout T-shirt from Puma; black bodywear shorts from Nike, $59; Air
Rift trainers from Nike, $169.

Right: Rebecca: Sonic three-quarter pants from Monell, $75; athletic top from
Nike, $39; sunglasses from Sportsgirl, $29.95;

backpack from Nike, $29.

Ben: navy diver shorts from Puma, $38.50; grey felt patch singlet from Mooks,
$49.50; Puma sports bag, $35.

Above: Performer crop top, $38.50, and Performer bike shorts, $33, from Puma;
cushion running socks from Nike, $10; X-trainers from Puma, $90; lightweight
jacket from Nike, $99.

Far left: Pink hooded coat from Feathers, $499; denim jeans from Feathers, $199;
shoulder bag from DKNY, $149; sunglasses

from Sportsgirl, $29.95.

Left: Unisex pants from Nike, $59; 06 Sports Airtex tank from Mooks, $43.90; red
Isolator trainers from Puma, $140.

Pictures: Stuart Milligan

Stylist: Marc Wasiak

Models: Rebecca from Viviens

Ben from Chadwick

Location: Healthland Fitness Club,

Church St, Richmond.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             421 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            October 27, 2000 Friday

Nike ad: Good taste gone in a swoosh

BYLINE: JOHN HEINZL

SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS: MANAGING; MARKETING; Pg. M1

LENGTH: 797 words


Nike, what on Earth were you thinking?

It is astonishing, given the myriad approvals an ad must receive before it sees
the light of day, how often firms screw up.

Sometimes, the goof can be forgiven. The makers of Dimetapp cold medicine, for
instance, recently pulled a funny TV ad that depicted thieves crashing a truck
through a store window and taking off with merchandise. The reason: The Retail
Council of Canada complained that it trivialized theft.

But Nike's latest fumble belongs in a class all its own.

In its zeal to sell more overpriced shoes, the footwear giant has stepped - or,
more accurately, stomped - on disabled people. The ad in question is so utterly
insensitive, the thinking so profoundly flawed, that those responsible should be
thrown off the nearest bridge with their Air Jordans tied together.

The magazine ad for Nike ACG Air Dri-Goat trail running shoes claimed the
product would help the jogger depicted in the ad avoid hitting a tree, an
accident that could render him a "a drooling, misshapen,
non-extreme-trail-running husk of my former self, forced to roam the Earth in a
motorized wheelchair with my name embossed on one of those cute little licence
plates you get at carnivals or state fairs, fastened to the back."

Geez. You forgot the part about not being able to bathe and feed yourself. And
never skating with your kids. And let's not forget all those stairs.

The ad drew swift complaints from disabled advocates, who called it "outrageous"
and "denigrating." Nike did the right thing by pulling the ad from future
publications and issuing a formal apology on its Web site. It said it meant to
show that using the right shoes can prevent serious injuries. Good idea.
Terrible execution.

Dan Wieden, chief executive officer of long-time Nike agency Wieden & Kennedy,
also admitted in a statement that "we have stepped over the line with this
advertisement and there is no excuse for it." The copy, he said, mysteriously
"got through our approval process."

Nike has a habit of putting its sneakers in its mouth. During the Sydney
Olympics, it pulled an ad that showed U.S. runner Suzy Favor Hamilton wearing a
Nike sports bra while fleeing from a chainsaw-wielding attacker.

People didn't find that funny, either.

   Nike isn't the only advertiser to miscalculate the public's response to an
ad.

The Fox TV network is removing billboards for its new TV show, The Street, after
people complained about its portrayal of women.

The billboards depict a woman wearing men's briefs and an unbuttoned dress
shirt. The copy reads: "They say Wall Street is a man's world. They're only half
right."

A Fox spokeswoman said the ad provoked complaints "from a few pockets" around
the United States.

"We want to be provocative. We want people to tune in. But we don't want to
anger people," the spokeswoman told Associated Press.

   Quiz: It's British, it's on television and it stars a plump woman who
scampers up a hill, peels off every last stitch of clothing and shouts, "I'm
normal." What is it?

Monty Python's Flying Circus? Benny Hill? Nope. It's the newest ad for Marks &
Spencer. You know, those lame stores nobody shopped at in Canada so they closed.

As profit tumbles at home, Marks & Sparks is trying to burnish its staid image.
But why show a size-14 woman in the buff on a hilltop? Research indicated female
forms are getting larger, and the chain wanted to highlight clothes for
plus-size customers.

British newspapers were not impressed. One reviewer called the strategy
"dubious." Desperate might be another word.

Maybe if the naked woman was running from a maniac with a chainsaw . . . never
mind.

   Sugar-coated cereals and candies don't just rot your teeth, kids. Now, they
help you learn to count, too.

This insidious trend started in 1994 with the M&M's Brand Counting Book, which
teaches toddlers to go one, two, three using pieces of the branded candy.

The book was a hit. Then along came books using Froot Loops, Hershey's
chocolates, Oreo cookies and Reese's Pieces. Some of the more advanced branded
books offer lessons in multiplication, division and fractions.

Now, I've got nothing against learning your kids how to do math. But should we
really be trusting this vital job to M&M's and Oreos? Fact is, nobody lives on
candies and cereal alone. A kid's gotta have French fries, too.

Which is why McDonald's should step up with a Supersize Fries and Drink Counting
Book. You know, eat a French fry, take a drink - that's one - eat a French fry,
take a drink - that's two. Maybe little Johnny could count how many bites it
takes to devour a Taco Bell Chalupa.

Let's act before it's too late, people. As Whitney Houston said, I believe that
children are our future.
Readers can send e-mail to:
jheinzl@globeandmail.ca

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2000 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             423 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       April 5, 2000, Wednesday Edition 1

Nike one Hartley

SECTION: GRASSROOTS SPORT, Pg. 56

LENGTH: 99 words


   NEW Hartley went into the final of the Coast Colts Under-12 League Cup
resplendent in new strips courtesy of Nike after they realised that their
original outfit clashed with FC Amble.

As well as the clash the club's original colours were looking a bit worse for
wear so they got in touch with the sports giants' London base and Nike were only
too happy to donate a full set of colours which were quickly despatched North.

"As well as looking good on the day the result went our way too,'' said a New
Hartley official after seeing his side lift the trophy with a 1-0 victory.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd


                             424 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                    September 15, 2000 Friday FINAL EDITION

WOODS SIGNS MEGA-CONTRACT WITH NIKE;
TIGER INKS A FIVE-YEAR CONTRACT EXTENSION WORTH A REPORTED $100 MILLION WITH
WORLD'S LARGEST SHOEMAKER

BYLINE: Dan Bollerman

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 457 words

DATELINE: BEAVERTON, Ore.


BEAVERTON, Ore. Tiger Woods signed a five-year extension to use Nike Inc.'s golf
balls, clothes and shoes, the company said, as he nears the end of his current
five-year, $40 million agreement with the world's largest athletic shoemaker.

Financial terms weren't disclosed. The Associated Press reported that the
agreement is worth $100 million, citing a source close to the negotiations.

Bob Wood, president of the company's Nike Golf division, said Woods signed the
extension on Thursday, a deal that runs for five years starting in September
2001.

"You don't often get a chance to work with the best in the world," Wood said
from his office in Beaverton.

Woods, 24, signed his first contract with Nike shortly after turning
professional in August 1996.

The extension would place Woods on a level with the one Nike has with retired
basketball superstar Michael Jordan, who has his own clothing line with the
company. Former boxer George Foreman and partners sold his name to Salton Inc.,
which makes the George Foreman line of grills, for $137.5 million in cash and
stock earlier this year.

At least one analyst said he isn't sure Nike can make money on Woods' new
contract.

"I think it's hard for it to be profitable unless golf continues to grow at
unprecedented levels," said Bob Williams of Burns Sports Celebrity Service,
which matches athletes with endorsers. "The good news is that they've got the
next marketing Jordan; the bad news is that he's in a niche sport."

Wood said the company might look at going into the golf-club business, a move
that Williams said might be the way Nike makes money.

"They've got to get Tiger interested in designing his own clubs," Williams said
from his office in Chicago. "They have a chance to make a lot of cash then."

Many prominent players have had their own club-making companies, including Ben
Hogan, Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer.

Woods has won the past three major championships the U.S. and British Opens and
U.S. PGA Championship and is the first player to win nine U.S. PGA Tour events
in a year since Sam Snead won 11 in 1950.

He's the youngest player to win all four majors in his career and has set
records for single-season and career money won on the U.S. tour.

Woods' decision to switch to Nike's Tour Accuracy ball in June ended a marketing
conflict between Woods' two top golf sponsors Nike and Acushnet Co.'s Titleist
that started last year when Nike entered the golf ball market.

Titleist had threatened Nike with a lawsuit after Woods appeared in a Nike
commercial in which the golfer bounced a ball off his wedge.

Instead, Titleist reworked Woods' agreement so that he was paid only when he
used its equipment in tournaments.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bloomberg News
Photo, Tiger Woods mug

                       Copyright 2000 Contra Costa Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             426 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mirror

                             August 6, 2000, Sunday

FOOTBALL: ROCKET FOR 'NASA' BALL

BYLINE: Paul Smith

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 7, 72

LENGTH: 261 words


THE Premier League has come under fire for booting the Mitre match ball into
touch and replacing it with space age technology from Nike.

The American company paid pounds 9m for a three-year deal to replace Mitre as
the offical Premiership matchball supplier.

A former NASA worker helped develop the "Geo Merlin" which is supposed to fly
faster and truer than any other football.

Mitre wrote to all Premiership clubs asking them to endorse their ball, which
has been used for the last eight years, but failed to stop Nike winning the deal
which is worth millions of pounds in brand awareness.

Gordon Strachan, manager of Coventry who tested the Nike ball, wrote to the
Premier League about the Merlin.

He said: "I understand NASA helped develop this ball and that is where it
belongs - in space. It is a very poor ball indeed. I only knew recently that our
academy had tested it but having used the ball in the past three weeks, I hate
it. It's far too quick and unpredictable and I would have stuck with the
original Mitre ball."

Liverpool goalkeeper Sander Westerveld also slammed the Nike ball. He said: "It
moves around all over the place and it is very slippery. I hate it and I know
the other keepers will as well."

A spokesman for Nike, who say the ball has been endorsed throughout Europe,
said: "We are not surprised that the introduction of such a technological
innovation has led to some debate. We are confident that when inflated to the
correct pressure the Geo Merline flies truer and straighter than any other
ball."

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             428 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                            June 24, 2000, Saturday

SAG BACKERS BLAST NIKE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL O'KEEFFE DAILY NEWS SPORTS WRITER

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 345 words

More than 100 striking actors and their supporters protested outside midtown
Manhattan's Niketown yesterday, blasting the athletic apparel giant because it
has continued to shoot commercials featuring athletes.

The footwear corporation was targeted because this week it announced that
Olympic sprinters Michael Johnson and Marion Jones had crossed picket lines to
shoot Nike commercials.

"Nike's insistence on being (arrogant) and being proud of it is what aggravates
people," Screen Actors Guild spokesman Paul Reggio said.

"An Olympic runner has one shot in four years to be in the public eye," Reggio
said. "They're putting the athletes in the middle."

"Michael Johnson, Shame on You, Nike Scab," said one protester's sign.

The strike has created factions in the sports world: The NFL, NBA and major
league baseball players' unions support the actors, and Tiger Woods recently
refused to shoot an ad during the strike. The Broncos' Terrell Davis, the
Titans' Eddie George, the Bucs' Keyshawn Johnson and the Rams' Kurt Warner have
crossed picket lines. Athletes who appear in commercials are required to join
SAG and could face discipline by the union.

Shaquille O'Neal also angered union members when he said, "I'm going to
Disneyland," for a commercial moments after the Lakers won the NBA title Monday
night. However, O'Neal, who planned to donate the money he will be paid for the
ad to charity, supports the strike, his agent said.

"This was a one-time result of a championship won by the Lakers," Leonard Armato
said.

Nike spokesman Bob Mitchell said the company can't interrupt its
commercial-production schedule, which is based on sporting events such as the
NBA playoffs, the Olympics and the World Series.

SAG and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists have been on
strike since May 1. Actors are paid each time a commercial is shown on network
TV but paid a flat fee when the ad is run on cable. The unions want to be paid
each time an ad runs, but ad agencies want to pay them a flat fee for all
network and cable ads.


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.


                             435 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

Nike probe turns into a Brazilian circus: Answers are few as lawmakers demand
changes to sportswear giant's contract with national team

BYLINE: PAUL CARBRAY

SOURCE: The Gazette

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. D11 Corner Kicks

LENGTH: 1226 words


Who's afraid of the big, bad Nike?

Apparently Brazil, which is in the throes of a congressional inquiry into the
contract between the American sportswear giant and the country's national team.

The Brazilians say the deal gives Nike to much control over the national team,
including the right to specify how many international exhibition games the
Brazilians play each year.

Although Nike agreed to cut the number of friendly games the team plays under
terms of its 10-year, $240- million (Canadian) rights contract, the country's
government wants more changes to the agreement, a congressional deputy said.

Nike and the Brazilian Soccer Federation agreed to reduce the number of
exhibition games Brazil plays to two from five a year under terms of the
contract.

The president of the government's lower-house inquiry into the deal said he'd
ask public prosecutors to take legal action against the Brazilian federation if
more changes weren't made.

"The contract breaks a law that sporting organizations shouldn't cede their
autonomy to a foreign company," congressional deputy Aldo Rebelo told Bloomberg
News. "It would be easier if the CBF and Nike change the contract. If not, we'll
request legal proceedings be opened."

The suspicion is the Brazilians want more money, especially in view of the
massive deal Nike signed with England's Manchester United, worth more than $670
million over 13 years.

The inquiry has been a bit of a joke. Former national-team coach Mario Zagallo,
questioned over the use of Ronaldo in the 1998 World Cup final despite a
mysterious seizure suffered by the striker hours before the game, shouted at
deputies and said little.

"I'm not dishonest, my life is clean," Zagallo screamed at deputies whom he said
were questioning his honesty.

Bad-boy striker Edmundo, who looked like he'd had a tough night on the town and
about an hour of sleep, caused a near-riot when he appeared, with deputies
clamouring to have their pictures taken with the striker and congress
practically shutting down. Edmundo, displaced by Ronaldo when it was decided he
could start the final, merely said Ronaldo was cleared by doctors to play and
Nike had nothing to do with the decision.

Joao Havelange, the wily former boss of FIFA, soccer's world governing body,
showed his ability to dodge and parry. Asked what he thought of the Nike pact,
Havelange said he hadn't read it.

Meanwhile, FIFA continues to raise the alarm about "Significant political
interference" into Brazilian soccer. But it has stopped short of reiterating the
threat first made by president Sepp (Blowhard) Blatter to suspend the country
from international play.

Suspend Brazil from the World Cup? Yeah, right.

-   OH, HOW THE MONEY ROLLS OUT - Despite possible changes that would outlaw
transfer fees, teams continue to pay huge amounts for players.

The latest extravagance came from England's Leeds United, which splashed out an
estimated $38 million for West Ham defender Rio Ferdinand.

Ferdinand said the price tag didn't concern him.

"I'm here to play football and raise my game," said the 22-year-old, who joined
West Ham's youth program at age 7. "European football is what I need and what I
want. Leeds can offer me that, so this is a big step forward for me."

The deal for the centre-back eclipsed the previous world record for a defender,
set by Manchester United when it paid PSV Eindhoven $ 23.3 million for Dutch
international Jaap Stam in 1998.

It also represented the biggest transfer fee involving an English club, beating
the $32.8 million paid by Newcastle United in 1996 and Chelsea in 2000 for Alan
Shearer and Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink, respectively.

Friday, perennial Scottish champion Glasgow Rangers, struggling this season,
paid a team-record $25.5 million for ex-Chelsea striker Tore Andre Flo. The
Norwegian international paid off quickly, scoring yesterday as Rangers defeated
arch-rival Celtic 5-1.

Meanwhile, another English team that's feeling the pain is once-mighty Tottenham
Hotspur. Manager George Graham admits that England international defender Sol
Campbell is almost sure to leave, but he can't trade him off.

Campbell has made it clear he won't leave until his contract expires at the end
of this season. That means he can leave as a free agent and Spurs will get
nothing. The likely beneficiary: Manchester United.

"It's time people realized you can't sell a player without that player's
permission," Graham said. "Sol's stand is that he is not going anywhere until he
sees his contract out.

"I can understand that, but what I can't understand is why he is not sitting
down and listening to our offer - even if he turns it down."

-    ITALIAN SCANDAL - Prosecutors in Italy have suggested that seven players
accused of fixing a game this season be suspended for three years,

The players on Atalanta of Serie A and Serie B's Pistoiese were accused of
fixing an Italian Cup game that ended 1-1. The investigation was launched after
unusually heavy wagering on the game was noticed.

-   SHORT PASSES - Don't talk to me about mild-mannered Swedes. Angry fans of
AIK Stockholm wrecked a bar owned by former AIK star Anders Limpar after the
midfielder, winding down his overseas career, signed to play with AIK rivals
Djurgarden. Fans spat in Limpar's face, called him a traitor, broke windows in
the bar and ripped down decorations. ...

Corinthians, the Brazilian team that was a surprise winner of FIFA's inaugural
World Club Championship in January, has been having a tough time this season.
The team now is looking for its fourth coach in 10 months after finishing 24th
of 25 teams in the Copa Joao Havelange. ...

Speaking of mixing politics and sport: Spain is attempting to block a move by
Gibraltar to join UEFA, the European soccer governing body. The British colony
"is not an independent country," said a Spanish soccer spokesman. Do you think
the protest has anything to do with Spain's longstanding contention that
Gibraltar belongs to Spain? Why, that would be political. Must be some other
reason. ...

Diego Maradona won't be allowed into Japan to watch his beloved Boca Juniors
take on Real Madrid in the Intercontinental Cup tomorrow. His conviction for
cocaine use means he is not permitted entry to Japan. ...

The three nominees for world player of the year, a FIFA-sponsored award, are
Brazilian Rivaldo, Zinedine Zidane of France and Luis Figo of Portugal. The
winner will be announced Dec. 11. ...

The record for most goals in a World Cup qualifier now is held by Iran, which
swamped the American protectorate of Guam 19-0 in the first round of Asian
qualifying Friday. Karim Bagheri, a midfielder with England's Charlton Athletic,
had six goals. The Guamese (Guamers? Guamites?) haven't improved. Guam lost 19-0
to China in January at an Asian Cup qualifying tournament. ...

German soccer legend Franz Beckenbauer admitted last week that he is the father
of a son born to a Munich secretary. Beckenbauer, who is married and chairman of
Bayern Munich, met the woman at the club's Christmas party, according to the
mass-circulation newspaper Bild. The woman gave birth to a boy in August.
Beckenbauer, 55, said he and his wife had "talked things over, and it wasn't
easy, especially for her." Gee, no kidding?

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: PHIL NOBLE, AFP ; Rio Ferdinand is introduced to, Leeds fans by
team chairman Peter Ridsdale after record signing.

TYPE: Column

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             436 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                              July 7, 2000, Friday

Nike suit to spur Freeman to gold

BYLINE: TOM SALOM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 211 words


THIS could be the new-look Cathy Freeman at the Olympic Games.

Freeman has tested the "Swift Suit" and is tipped to race in it this month.

The hi-tech skintight Nike suit, complete with hood and mesh earholes, improves
a sprinter's aerodynamics.

Five separate fabric styles cover different muscle groups to provide optimum
temperatures for the muscles.

Freeman secretly tested the suit in Melbourne late last year, and more recently
in the United States.

"It's good," she said. 'You feel like you are slicing through the air."

Nike has been pressing Freeman to race in the suit since it was launched last
month but she wanted further tests.

The champion 400m runner was due to race in France on Saturday but has withdrawn
from the meet.

She is now tipped to wear the outfit in a race in Norway towards the end of the
month.

Adidas has made a similar suit but without the hood.

Australian sprinter Matt Shirvington has tested the adidas version.

Nike has spent two years designing the suit with windtunnel testing showing
improved times over 100m, 200m and 400m.

American sprinter Florence Griffith-Joyner first wore a hooded running suit in
the 1980s, but it was considered more a fashion garment.

DRUG cheat backs down, Page 4

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             437 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

Teams vie for soccer Cup berth: Nike Cup playdowns feature clubs from Montreal,
Ontario, N.S.

SECTION: Sports; C12

LENGTH: 267 words


The planet's most popular game invades local fields next Saturday when 10
Montreal-area teams are joined by seven more from Ontario and Nova Scotia for
qualifying-round play in the Nike Premier Cup, the world's largest international
tournament for players under 14.

Seventy-two teams from across Canada will play for the national championship and
the right to represent the country at the North American Finals in Oregon and
the World Finals in Amsterdam.

The Nike Premier Cup began seven years ago in Europe, with 624 teams from 12
countries.

Its growth has been phenomenal with the rise in soccer's popularity, especially
in North America, and the tournament now boasts more than 5,000 teams worldwide.

Three regional qualifying rounds will be played - in Vancouver, Toronto and
Montreal. Twelve boys' and 12 girls' teams will take part in each qualifing
tournament, hoping to advance to the Canadian Finals in Toronto May 27-28.

''Participation in soccer is stronger than ever right now in Canada,'' says
Nike's Julia Maughan, who captained the McGill Martlets for two seasons and
played for Quebec's provincial women's team.

''We want to show the rest of the world we belong on the international stage,
and this tournament allows us to do that.''

Montreal-area teams taking part:

Girls: Bourassa, Anjou; Lac St. Louis Lakers, Lac St. Louis; Les Conquerants,
Laval; F.C. Select, Saint-Hubert.

Boys: F.C. Select Rive-Sud, Brossard; Lac St. Louis Lakers, Lac St. Louis;
Bourassa, Anjou; National RDP, Montreal; Patriotes Richelieu-Yamaska; Lanaudiere
Dragons, Terrebonne.


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             438 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                         September 13, 2000, Wednesday

Exclusive venue for Nike stars

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 114 words


NIKE will open an entertainment centre today for 700 of the top Olympic
competitors sponsored by the sportswear giant.

The centre in Silverwater will host the company's contracted athletes such as US
sprinters Michael Johnson and Maurice Greene and Australia's Cathy Freeman and
Lleyton Hewitt.

It can host up to 200 athletes at a time and features a bar and dining area,
private lounges, video games, table tennis and pool tables.

Nike spokeswoman Megan Ryan said the athletes would be free to relax in the
centre away from the pressures of competition and the media.

Company executives will also use the centre to wine and dine athletes and set up
new contracts.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             443 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            January 10, 2000, Monday

Nike defends its footy shirts

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 74 words


LONDON: Tests on a UK-made football shirt have found it contains very low levels
of a toxic chemical but should pose no danger to people wearing it, manufacturer
Nike says.

Fears had been raised over the shirts of the German club Borussia Dortmund after
a German TV show commissioned lab tests and claimed they contained tributyltin.
Nike Europe released statements by several scientists saying the garment should
pose no danger to humans.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             444 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            January 10, 2000, Monday

Nike defends its soccer shirts

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 74 words


LONDON: Tests on a UK-made football shirt have found it contains very low levels
of a toxic chemical but should pose no danger to people wearing it, manufacturer
Nike says.

Fears had been raised over the shirts of the German club Borussia Dortmund after
a German TV show commissioned lab tests and claimed they contained tributyltin.
Nike Europe released statements by several scientists saying the garment should
pose no danger to humans.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             445 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                    December 22, 2000, Friday, Home Edition

Venus' deal richest for women

BYLINE: From News Services

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Sports; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 453 words

New York --- Tennis star Venus Williams, who won Wimbledon, the U.S. Open and
two Olympic gold medals this year, signed what is believed to be the richest
endorsement deal for any female athlete Thursday with Reebok International.

Terms were not announced, but the deal was reported to be worth $ 40 million
over five years.

''We made a decision there is no better athlete to represent our brand,'' said
Angel Martinez, Reebok's chief marketing officer.

David Bober, who represents soccer star Mia Hamm, was impressed with Williams'
contract.

''That's a pretty significant contract for a female athlete,'' he said. ''It can
only help shorten the gap between male and female athletes on endorsements. It's
another signal that we are moving toward parity, a clear message that women's
sports are here to stay.''

The 20-year-old Williams recognized the significance of the contract.

''I have to be the best in everything I do,'' she said. ''We've come a long way
with the WNBA and the soccer players. I'm doing what I can. Maybe that's the
most important part."

Huge endorsement deals have been rare in women's sports. Monica Seles signed a
five-year, $ 25 million deal with Nike after returning to the women's tennis
tour in 1996. Martina Hingis has a six-year Nike contract that pays close to $
30 million.

Nike also has endorsement agreements with Mia Hamm, Lindsay Davenport, Lisa
Leslie and Marion Jones.

Anna Kournikova may have the richest deal of all, a six-year contract with
Adidas worth $ 50 million. But that agreement includes many incentives,
including Grand Slam victories and high rankings for a player who has yet to win
her first tournament. Its guarantee is about $ 3 million.

By contrast, Nike has a reported $ 100 million deal with Tiger Woods, and
Michael Jordan generates $ 40 million a year in endorsement income two years
after his retirement.

Alex Rodriguez, who last week signed a 10-year, $ 252 million contract with
baseball's Texas Rangers, figures to join the top echelon of athlete endorsers
soon.

"I'd like to clone myself about 80 times," said Reed Bergman of Impact Sports
Marketing in Atlanta, who oversees Rodriguez's endorsements, corporate
partnerships and community work. "Madison Avenue is really starting to see who
this guy is and what he can be."

Rodriguez already has numerous endorsements, but analysts say his record-
breaking playing contract puts his commercial opportunities in a new light.

"The price just went up," said Bob Williams of Burns Sports Celebrity Service, a
Chicago firm that matches athletes with endorsers. "When you're making as much
money as he is, you can afford to do a small number of very lucrative, multiyear
deals."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Alex Rodriguez has seen his commercial appeal rise.
Photo
Venus Williams (left) has signed a five-year contract with Reebok.

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution


                             446 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                           September 18, 2000, Monday

Inspired purchase

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 126 words


WITH all this Olympics activity you're probably thinking about resurrecting your
fitness plan.

Apart from the usual health warnings about not going too hard too early, you
might want to upgrade your footwear.

This week we picked a few styles of sports shoes and put them to the price test.
Stocks varied greatly from store to store but the Nike shoes were widely
available.

The cheapest price for the Nike Air Sanctum cross trainer was $135 at Foot
Locker. Myer was a shade under $140 but Coles Myer shareholders would receive a
10 per cent discount.

The Nike Jetpack 2 also ranged from $99 to $119.

Happy exercising.

Prices are gathered anonymously and all care is taken but readers should make
their own inquiries.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             447 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                           January 8, 2000, Saturday

Nike jerseys off the shelf until tested

LENGTH: 156 words


NIKE said yesterday it was investigating charges that its jerseys for a popular
German soccer club are laced with a toxic anti-bacterial chemical.

But German department stores were not waiting; they have already pulled the
shirts off their shelves.

The action followed a German television report that the jerseys contained
tributyltin, a heavy metal compound used in anti-barnacle paint for ships.

Also used to kill bacteria and quell the smell of sweat, TBT would seem an ideal
additive for sports shirts. But British and Dutch tests have shown the substance
causes mutations in marine snails.

Nike world headquarters in Beaverton, Oregon, pledged a quick probe to determine
whether any of its products contained the substance.

"We're doing independent tests on our end to ensure there is no risk to the
public," spokesman Vada Manager said. The check will cover products sold in
Germany and throughout the world.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             448 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                              May 19, 2000, Friday

Tiger's ball goes swoosh

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 116

LENGTH: 77 words


GOLF

TIGER Woods used the Nike golf ball during his pro-am round ahead of the
European Tour Players' Championship in Hamburg yesterday, a move that could
signal the end of his tenuous relationship with Titleist and make Nike Golf a
legitimate force in the equipment industry.

Golf World Business and Golfweek magazines reported on their Web sites that
Woods used a version of the Nike Tour Accuracy at the tournament where he is the
defending champion.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             451 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 19, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Nike's chain-saw killer ad just doesn't do it for NBC

BYLINE: Greg Farrell

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 413 words


Nike's done it again. The shoemaker and sports colossus managed
to offend a number of viewers with a "cutting edge" TV ad during
the Olympics on Sunday.

It was so "cutting edge" in fact that on Monday morning NBC
cut it from its roster of spots approved for Olympic exposure.


In the style of teen terror movies, the spot has a masked psychopathic
killer sporting a chain saw terrorize an attractive woman in her
bathroom. The woman, Suzy Favor Hamilton of the U.S. Olympic track
team, flees her house with the killer in pursuit. Her speed and
athleticism leaves the out-of-shape, would-be chain-saw killer
gasping for breath in her wake.

The message appears, "Why sport? You'll live longer." The commercial
then closes with Nike's swoosh symbol and the familiar tagline,
"Just Do It."

The ad provoked enough negative response for NBC to yank it from
the rotation, spokeswoman Maria Battaglia says.

The peacock network originally accepted the ad "subject to audience
complaint," Battaglia says. "Adverse audience reaction," meaning
more than 2,000 phone calls, caused NBC to pull the plug.

Nike spokesman Scott Reames acknowledged that response has been
"robust," though not entirely negative. "That's the risk we
take in trying to push borders," he says. "We think people who
understand Nike and who we are will get these ads."

Reames noted that airing the spot during the Games, when families
could see it together, exposed it to a wider audience than its
intended core. Young people weaned on such fare as Friday the
13th horror films and I Know What You Did Last Summer likely
found it funny.

But the spot, from agency Wieden & Kennedy, did raise alarms
with some who have praised past Nike work.

"I have loved almost everything Nike has done in the past 15
years," says David Lubars, president of ad agency Fallon McElligott.
"But this spot I did not like at all, because of the violence
against women. I am not a creative prude in any way, but that's
not funny to joke about. It had me squirming. It's something you
can't kid about."

Nike is no stranger to controversy. The marketer has cultivated
a "bad boy" image, positioning itself as a rebel against the
status quo. Its first ad starring Tiger Woods took on a golf establishment
that seemed to be slower than other sports to integrate.

"If you don't have a lot of reaction on both sides, you've missed
the mark," says Nike's Reames.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W (3); PHOTO, Color, Nike; Don't do it: U.S. Olympic track
star Suzy Favor Hamilton escapes a chain-saw-wielding killer in a Nike ad yanked
by NBC. The ad, a spoof on teen horror movies, provoked 2,000 outraged phone
calls to the network.

                      Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.


                             453 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                     August 26, 2000 Saturday Final Edition

Naked truth about celebrity endorsements

SOURCE: The Independent; London

BYLINE: Jojo Moyes

SECTION: WEEKEND ARTS; Pg. W08

LENGTH: 498 words


The pitfalls of the celebrity endorsement were thrown into sharp relief this
week with the news that two of its brightest (and most expensive) stars do not
use the products they advertise.

In the United States, a lawsuit filed by a consumer group forced sports giant
Nike to admit Tiger Woods does not use the Nike Tour Accuracy golf balls he is
paid $1.5 million a year to endorse.

In his recent run of victories, he has used a modified ball, created specially
for him.

The lawsuit, brought by a non-profit organization called Public Remedies Inc.,
claims Nike was misleading golfers into thinking they were playing with the same
ball as Woods, and demands the company returns its "ill-gotten gains" to the
public.

In Britain, Jamie Oliver, the omnipresent Naked Chef who broke a BBC precedent
to front a $2.25 million advertising campaign for supermarket chain Sainsbury,
has admitted he uses independent suppliers.

"I do not buy from Sainsbury's for my restaurant," the chef whose programs air
on PBS, said.

"For any chef, supermarkets are like a factory. I buy from specialist growers,
organic suppliers and farmers."

But Woods and Oliver are not the first celebrities hoist by their own
endorsements.

Actress Helena Bonham Carter was signed as the face of Yardley cosmetics, then
admitted she didn't wear makeup.

Australian cricketer Shane Warne was caught smoking, after pharmaceutical giant
Upjohn and Pharmacia, makers of Nicorette gum, had sponsored him for $200,000 to
quit.

But, said David Benady, deputy editor of Britain's Marketing Week magazine,
sponsors should not be surprised.

"If you've got a top footballer or pop star they're not always the most
dependable.

"Things can go wrong, and often do."

He cited Pepsi's use of singer Michael Jackson until damaging claims about his
sex life came to light.

"With Jamie Oliver and Tiger Woods, (the revelations) might not necessarily be
bad for business, but it just looks silly. You would expect Jamie Oliver to go
to Sainsbury's."

In the world of celebrity endorsement, some associations look unlikely, such as
Ivana Trump's endorsement of Kentucky Fried Chicken, or the advertising by
British comedian Jim Davidson, who recently signed an $8 million two-year deal
with the BBC, of a car finance company, under the slogan: "Need a car but can't
get credit?" "With Jim Davidson, you are targeting a certain sector of the
population," said Benady.

"It won't matter if they aren't going to use the product themselves, it matters
that they identify with the brand."

Matthew Patten, chief executive of advertising giant M&C Saatchi Sponsorship,
said:

"If you look at sport and entertainment, coverage used to be about the sport, or
the entertainment.

"Now it's all about personalities, which makes endorsement all the more
effective."

Savvy marketing men are ensuring their "celebrity" is never likely to misbehave,
by using techno-personalities, such as Lara Croft in Lucozade ads.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Helena Bonham Carter: No Yardley; Photo: Tiger Woods: Modified
golf balls

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 2000 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                             456 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                               September 23, 2000

Overturn ring fine: jewellers

SECTION: Agency: AGENCY, Pg.5

LENGTH: 197 words


A firm of jewellers which sold cut-price silver rings embossed with the trade
marks of Nike and Reebok has appealed to a judge to overturn a GBP 4,000 fine.

The firm, Bountygold Ltd, was prosecuted by Gloucestershire Trading Standards,
the shoppers' watchdog, after officers visited its shop Silver Mine in
Cheltenham's Beechwood Shopping Centre in January last year.

The Gloucester Appeal Court heard the officers seized the rings claiming they
breached the Trade Descriptions Act as customers would believe they were
manufactured by the two international sports firms.

Christine Ray, who protects the famous Nike "swoosh" in the UK, said the trade
mark was not initially registered to cover jewellery.

She said: "Nike spends millions of pounds throughout the world every year and we
must protect our trade mark."

Mr Nigel Cole, prosecuting, said: "The public might not know the details of a
registered trade mark but in this case the public would most certainly recognise
these registered trade marks.

"It's plain that the public would accept the rings were made by these companies
but they were imported from Thailand."

The hearing was adjourned until Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2000 Gloucestershire Echo


                             457 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            May 17, 2000, Wednesday

FOOTBALL: NIKE CUP BID HIT BY DOUBLE BLOW;
 MICK'S AMERICAN DREAM SHATTERED

BYLINE: Michael Scully

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 41, 44

LENGTH: 396 words


MICK McCarthy's NIKE Cup hopes were left in tatters last night as he
contemplated a trip to the United States without two of his most important and
experienced players.

Roy Keane and Gary Kelly have been ruled out of the American trip in June, as
well as the Steve Staunton/Tony Cascarino testimonial and the friendly clash
with Scotland on May 30.

Ireland were already without Staunton, Lee Carsley, David Connolly, Ian Harte
and Alan Maybury for the games, but McCarthy had put a brave face on it - until
he received news his skipper Keane, and Kelly had been withdrawn by their clubs.

Kelly was withdrawn by Leeds United manager David O'Leary yesterday, even though
O'Leary had said at the weekend he was happy to allow the full-back to go. Kelly
follows his nephew Harte in having a hernia operation.

The Republic take on the Scotland at Lansdowne Road on May 30, before leaving
for their three-match tour of America and Nike Cup games against Mexico in
Chicago on June 4, USA in Boston on June 6 and South Africa in New Jersey on
June 11.

Keane injured a hamstring in last month's 3-2 victory over Chelsea at Old
Trafford and missed the Reds' final three Premiership fixtures of the season
against Watford, Spurs and Aston Villa.

McCarthy said: "I'm sorry to have lost Roy. He had said he would be travelling
to America, but he has informed me the hamstring injury has not sufficiently
healed to allow him to travel, much less to play in the testimonial or against
Scotland," said McCarthy.

"Roy has told me he hasn't trained since getting the injury and he's not

fit. And the loss of Gary Kelly is a blow."

Speculation has been rife for months that Keane would not be available at the
end of another long, hard season, but he had informed McCarthy recently that he
was eager to spearhead the trip.

And with doubts over Niall Quinn, Stephen McPhail and Kenny Cunningham, McCarthy
expects more withdrawals - however as yet he has not turned to youth to fill out
the squad.

Surprisingly, McCarthy has selected Phil Babb and Paul Butler, while Richard
Dunne, Matt Holland, Graham Kavanagh, Steve Finnan, Steve Carr and McPhail - the
only uncapped player - are the novices included.

McPhail could yet be withdrawn due to a hamstring problem, while Curtis Fleming
could yet be added to the squad to give some cover at full-back.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             458 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 4, 2000

I won't do it, Tiger tells Nike

SECTION: Pg. 77

LENGTH: 284 words


TIGER WOODS, the World No.1 golfer who is paid GBP 8million-a-year to endorse
Nike products, refused to film an advert for the company because it would have
meant breaking an actors' strike.

The commercial, scheduled to be screened during next month's U.S.

Open, was being filmed at Woods' home course near Orlando.

But members of the Screen Actors Guild, of which Woods is a member, were
striking in order to force cable television to pay the same repeat viewing fees
as terrestrial stations and the golfer refused to cross the picket line.

Woods is currently renegotiating his contract with Nike, which is expected to
pay between GBP 50m and GBP 57m for the next five years.

His agent Mark Steinberg said: 'We have no plans to shoot again for several
weeks. There is a strike going on and we're abiding by it.'

PAUL HEAVEY is in the running for the head coaching jobs at Bracknell Bees and
Manchester Storm after quitting the Cardiff Devils.

Scot Heavey, whose 10-year playing and coaching career in Cardiff included ice
hockey's inaugural Superleague crown in 1997, said: 'I'll cherish my memories of
Cardiff but now I need a new challenge.' Bracknell and Manchester are looking
for new coaches after last month's respective departures of Dave Whistle and
Kurt Kleinendorst.

CHRIS FINCH is to remain in charge of basketball's Sheffield Sharks.

A change of ownership at the club, plus attempts from Wembley finalists
Birmingham to recruit him, had cast doubt over his future. But American Finch,
30, has accepted a one-year contract extension from new owner Darren Brown.

Finch said: 'Now we need to make sure the Sharks stay at the top of the British
game.'


LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             459 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    December 14, 2000 Thursday FINAL EDITION

Brazil chief defends controversial Nike deal

SOURCE: Sun News Services

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. D7 World of Sport

LENGTH: 79 words

DATELINE: BRASILIA


Brazilian soccer chief Ricardo Teixeira defended a controversial sponsorship
deal with sportswear giant Nike on Wednesday, telling a Congressional commission
it was the best contract of its type in the world. Teixeira, president of the
Brazilian Football Confederation, was asked detailed questions about the CBF's
dealings and the widespread problems afflicting Brazilian football but staunchly
rebutted any accusations that the Nike deal was in any way questionable.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Brief; Sports

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             460 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

Tiger just won't do it

SECTION: Sports; E4

LENGTH: 222 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


World No. 1 golfer Tiger Woods is refusing to film a new Nike Inc. commercial
because members of the Screen Actors Guild are on strike, the guild said.
Members of the actors guild and the American Federation of Television and Radio
Artists, which represent a total of about 135,000 actors, are on strike over
plans by advertisers to pay actors flat-rate fees, instead of paying based on
the number of times a commercial is shown on television. The 24-year-old Woods
is a member of the guild. He is No. 1 on the PGA Tour's career money list with
$14.7 million and has won three of the eight tournaments he's played this year.
''We're delighted Tiger understands and supports the issues in contention in
this contract, his expression of union solidarity is most welcome at this
time,'' guild spokesman Chris Krizman said. Woods, who also has endorsement
contracts with American Express Co. and General Motors Corp. unit Buick, is one
of Nike's most high-profile pitchmen. Woods made $47 million in combined
tournament earnings and off-course endorsement in 1999, according to Forbes
magazine. Nike hasn't rescheduled the filming, a spokesman said. The new
commercial was to have aired during next month's U.S. Open. Instead, Nike will
use commercials that profile its apparel and equipment to fill the ad time.


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             463 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                         September 27, 2000, Wednesday

Hooded champion cleans up on ads

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 267 words


MARKETING executives did not wait long to begin cashing in on Cathy Freeman's
Olympic gold medal in the 400m on Monday night.

Within three hours of her win, 220 Nike billboards around Sydney had been
changed to reflect Freeman's gold medal performance.

"Cathy Freeman, official sponsor of joy to the Sydney 2000 Olympics," the
posters declared across a photo of a triumphant Freeman.

New Nike television advertisements went to air on Channel Seven yesterday, as
the hype surrounding Freeman's win continued.

Nike national advertising manager Nick Lewis said he had received a call from
billboard company Adshel 15 minutes after the 400m Olympic final informing him
the Freeman posters had been changed over at sites closest to Olympic Park.

Freeman, who is married to American Nike executive Sandy Boedecker, has featured
prominently in train station and bus stop advertising in Australian capital
cities since the Olympics began on September 15.

"Change the world 400 metres at a time," the billboards say, beneath a shot of
Freeman wearing the hooded bodysuit she wore during last night's race.

Adshel, the company behind the bus-stop and train station advertising campaign,
said Nike was the first company to take up the offer of overnight billboards.

Adshel publicity manager Diana O'Riordan said the international sportswear
company had pre-approved the artwork in the overnight Freeman billboard.

The photograph on the posters was taken months ago in anticipation of Freeman
winning. Ms O'Riordan said Nike had not arranged a back-up billboard if the
unthinkable had happened.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             465 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                            August 18, 2000, Friday

Cathy is larger than life - World's biggest billboard

BYLINE: MARK SKELSEY

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 397 words


AN IMAGE of athlete Cathy Freeman 70m high will be placed on the side of a
Sydney skyscraper as part of the world's biggest billboard.

Cathy's image along with similar-sized pictures of tennis player Lleyton Hewitt
and basketballer Lauren Jackson will be on separate faces of a commercial office
building in Kent St.

The billboard should be ready within two weeks.

Sports manufacturer Nike, with the blessing of the Olympic Co-ordination
Authority and building co-owners Waterways Authority and BT Funds Management, is
believed to have paid hundreds of thousands of dollars to display the sign
during

the Olympics.

During the Atlanta Games, Nike was renowned for its "ambush" advertising such as
giving Just Do It signs to spectators.

For the Sydney Games Nike is an official sponsor and therefore has been given a
smooth ride to erect what will undoubtedly be the most dominant advertising
feature in the city.

An application is also before Sydney City Council for the three images, which
are made out of "one-way vision" vinyl film, to be shown outside the Olympics
from November 1 to December 20.

The image of Freeman is the size of a quarter-acre block -- 1082sq m.

It shows her in the starting position with the words Just Do It and the Nike
swoosh above her left shoulder.

Motorists driving on the Bradfield Hwy, the main southern approach to the Sydney
Harbour Bridge will see this image.

The image on the western face, which will be seen by people on Sydney Harbour
west of the Bridge, features South Australian tennis player Lleyton Hewitt
having just slammed a forehand shot down the line.

While there are no Nike slogans, his clothing carries the telltale logo.

The image of basketballer Lauren Jackson, which faces the east or city side,
shows her about to make a shot and has the words Just Do It.

The image of Hewitt covers 621sq m, while the image of Jackson covers 870sq m.

The application to the council claims the images are "more like public art than
advertising".

The 26-storey building is about 200m from Darling Harbour -- a venue for several
Olympic sports and community events.

Workers within the building will see through the sign to the outside, thanks to
the film's "one-way vision" qualities.

An advertising industry source said it was almost certain the three signs
comprised the world's largest billboard.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             468 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                          September 14, 2000, Thursday

BRIEFS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 698 words


* HAVE you noticed that the people insisting that globalisation is going to be
good for the poor, as well as the rich and powerful, are the rich and
powerful?-- Margaret Mack, Hendra.

September 11

* I'M working class and I would like more information on those "good, cheap
shoes" that Michael Duffy (Perspectives, Sept 12) thinks Nike is so kindly
providing for me. As for the "greasy undercooked hamburgers in milk bars", I bet
Duffy wouldn't mind a hamburger from my takeaway. It is non-greasy, well cooked
and delicious, bursting with fresh vegetables that, at times, I wouldn't be
bothered providing for myself.

We don't need McDonalds and real athletes don't need Nike.-- B. Pattison,
Redcliffe.

September 12

* WHEN Michael Duffy said "companies like Nike and McDonalds are giving workers
the chance to dress and eat well" did he mean that if you work for them you can
afford to buy a pair of shoes and some groceries? He can't possibly suggest
paying $200 for a pair of trainers is "dressing well". As for Macs, has he ever
heard the term "junk food"?

He said most Australians were so unpatriotic that they'd prefer a delicious McOz
burger to a germ-ridden, reheated pack of grease from a locally owned cafe. What
a stupid generalisation. Did he ask them? The rationale he uses spoils the tone
of his argument.-- D. Ripley, Marcus Beach.

September 12

* IF anyone on the Australian Olympic swimming team deserves a gold medal,
Daniel Kowalski does. I wish him all the luck in the world. Kieren Perkins may
be a good swimmer but he is not God, as some would like to think.-- Susie Bauer,
Ashmore.

September 12

* THE thought of a catering company being willing to take legal action if
someone is caught taking their own food into Stadium Australia reeks of greed.
The proud cry "Let the Games begin" should be replaced by a more sensible cry:
"Is the damn thing over yet?"-- Duke Shield, Tewantin.

September 10

* THE most effective punishment for people caught deliberately lighting
bushfires would be to make them return to the scene to face up to one of the
worst consequences of their actions. They should be made to assist those people
who give their time to collect and care for the burnt and suffering wildlife
whose survival depends on the actions -- good or ill -- of the human species.--
Marie Tebby, Noosa Heads.

September 11

* YOU report on the National Party's "bid to crush minor parties" (C-M, Sept
11). I can see the campaign coming unstuck on two fronts.

First, a lot of people vote for minor parties for no other reason than that they
favour an underdog. The National Party's move could cause even more people to
vote this way.

Second, in some electorates, the Nationals are already a "minor party".--
Richard Carroll, Aspley.

September 11

Letters and e-mail must be dated, carry the full address of the writer and a
daytime telephone number for verification. Letters should be concise, topical,
not more than 300 words and are submitted on condition that Queensland
Newspapers, as publisher of The Courier-Mail, may edit and has the right to, and
license third parties to, reproduce in electronic form and communicate these
letters. Writers of e-mail letters may have their personal e-mail address
published instead of their town or suburb.

*  THE writer of the Letter of the Month wins a Filofax personal organiser,
valued at $175, from The Pen Shoppe, Brisbane City.

Thought

for Today

He will give you the strength to endure.

II Corinthians 1:7b

Selected by the Bible Society from the Living Bible.

YESTERDAY, at Government House, Canberra, Governor-General Sir William Deane
presided at a meeting of Federal Executive Council.

YESTERDAY afternoon, Queensland Governor Major-General Peter Arnison and Mrs
Arnison hosted a visit to Government House by Bardon

Pre-School.

Later, the Governor received the call of the Clerk of the Parliament.

In the evening at Woolloongabba, the Governor and Mrs Arnison attended the Gala
Ceremony and the Olympic Games soccer match between Cameroon and Kuwait.

Printed and published by Queensland Newspapers Pty. Ltd. (ACN 009 661 778) 41
Campbell Street, Bowen Hills, Q. 4006

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             469 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                       October 11, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL

'Trampoline' shoes propel Vince Carter ever higher

BYLINE: Bev Wake

SECTION: News; A1 / Front

LENGTH: 607 words


Just what Vince Carter needs -- another advantage. Here's a guy who, during the
Olympic Games, soared over the head of 7-2 centre Frederic Weis of France en
route to a dunk. Legs spread in mid-air, Mr. Carter barely scraped the top of
Mr. Weis's buzzcut.

And now, the Toronto Raptors' star and defending slam-dunk champion will play
with springs attached to his feet -- or at least the equivalent turned into a
shoe.

Mr. Carter wore Nike's new basketball shoes -- Nike Shox that were 16 years in
development -- at the Olympics last month and plans to keep wearing them all
season.

Nike spokesman Eric Oberman stops short of saying Nike Shox will allow Mr.
Carter to jump even higher as he flies toward a hoop, but he said the shoe could
help his performance.

''If Vince Carter feels he can jump that much higher or dunk that much better,
then that's just as good,'' he said. ''People are always talking about the
mental and emotional aspects of the game.''

Mr. Oberman said the shoes, which will be launched in stores across Canada and
the United States on Nov. 15, act like miniature trampolines. Four small columns
in the heel absorb the impact of the foot and then deflect the energy upwards.

''They shoot you back up,'' said Mr. Oberman, communications manager for Nike
basketball.

''The technology is something that hasn't been seen before,'' he said. ''It's
something that gives the athletes the feel of jumping higher and running faster
and cross-training harder.''

Mr. Carter was one of several NBA players to give Nike Shox a test run during
the Olympic Games in Sydney. In the gold-medal game, Mr. Carter, Shareef Abdur-
Rahim, Tim Hardaway and Antonio McDyess all wore golden versions of the shoe.

Mr. Carter signed a $30-million, multi-year deal with Nike on Sept. 17, although
more than half of that money will be used to pay off the debt he accumulated
when he walked away from a shoe deal with Puma.

The concept behind Nike Shox is actually 16 years old, meaning Mr. Carter was
just seven years old when it was originally developed. The plan was to place
little columns in the heel of the shoe that would act like springs on peoples'
feet.

Mr. Oberman said designers, however, were unable to find the right product to
make the springs and the shoe got put on the back burner through the 1990s when
the company launched Nike Air and Air Jordan.

Designers came across a type of material about two years ago that would work --
a cushioning material used in Formula One race cars to absorb an impact and
bounce back.

Three versions of Nike Shox -- for basketball, running and cross-training --
were then developed and tested.

Testers used the term ''boing'' to describe the feel of the new shoes, a term
that will be picked up in Nike ad campaigns before the launch of the shoes in
Canada and the U.S. on Nov. 15 and in Europe and the Americas in February 2001.

Nike Shox are already being marketed on the Internet in a series of short movies
called ''movie trailers you can't see in movie theatres.'' Three of the films
are shot in black and white, and feature Mr. Carter shooting hoops in an empty
gymnasium.

Mr. Oberman said Nike is uncertain at this point whether Nike Shox will prove as
popular as the Nike Air shoes of the 1990s.

''I don't know if you can really compare them at this point, but obviously the
prospects are high considering the research that has gone into them,'' he said.

Mr. Carter and Mr. Abdur-Rahim will both be in Ottawa Thursday, to compete in
the annual Naismith Cup game between the Raptors and the Vancouver Grizzlies at
the Corel Centre at 8 p.m.


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CP Color Photo: The new Nike Shox employ cushioning material used in
Formula One race cars.

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             471 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                THE KOREA HERALD

                            December 1, 2000, Friday

Korean-American model scores big with Nike ad

BYLINE: By Patty Chung Contributing writer

LENGTH: 690 words



This is how cool Jerome is: he doesn't use his last name. But while the
twentysomething Korean-American model and sometimes actor may not yet have the
name recognition of Liza, Madonna or Bono, his lean body and narrow handsome
face is becoming widely known in Korea.

Jerome jive-walks, runs and leaps in a string of recent Nike ads in the pages of
Korea's hottest magazines.

The Nike spots are only the latest success in his modeling career which includes
campaigns for Levi's and Omphalos. Though his small frame is a handicap on the
runway circuit, his charisma has had him sauntering down the catwalks for
Emporio Armani, Polo Jeans, Thursday Islanda and Renoma. He will also be seen at
the upcoming Song Zio collection fashion show.

Jerome never set out to become a beautiful person. "It all just kind of happened
by chance," he said in an interview with The Korea Herald. He is referring to
the summer before his sophomore year of high school, when he was spotted by a
representative of Korea's Education Broadcasting Station (EBS) and was recruited
to teach English on TV. The camera loved Jerome and he became a celebrity of
sorts and discovered how much he enjoyed being a performer.

Like many models, Jerome harbors a wish to act.  He cites Michael Melton, one of
his high school teachers as an inspirational figure who encouraged him to try
his hand at acting. Jerome soon caught the acting bug and performed with the Far
East Drama Team throughout high school.

Upon graduating from the Seoul American High School on Yongsan's Military Base,
Jerome set off for college, where he was enrolled at the University of
Washington on a four-year full ROTC scholarship.  Upon returning to Korea to
visit his parents for the summer holidays, Jerome was approached by Kim
Yoon-sung, a music producer for IVY Music, to pursue a career in Korea's music
industry. After months of practicing, Jerome was offered a chance to join the
three-member dance group, ON/OFF.

ON/OFF turned out to be more off than on, and Jerome's foray into the music
industry was short-lived. He has no regrets. He sees it as an opportunity for
him to perform on stage and network with various people in the entertainment
industry.

Jerome's modeling debut came after he did a photo shoot for a friend who was a
stylist for an SBS sports magazine. He was spotted by other casting agents and
has since been modeling steadily.

Recently, he was approached to host the reality-based television series, "Happy
Station" on Arirang TV. On the show, Jerome was given the task of making the
dreams of foreign guests come true. "It was a great experience meeting different
people and learning of their cultures, experiences in Korea and being able to
give them a ray of sunshine in their lives, even it was only temporary," said
Jerome of his stint as expat dream weaver.

Currently, Jerome is pursuing a television career and serves as both host and
reporter for "LOOK Inside," a newly launched entertainment program on cable
channel 41 that features the fashion and style trends of celebrities. Jerome has
also been cast in music videos for dance artists, Park Ji-yoon, SZ and balladeer
Cho Kyu-man and appeared in television commercials for Dunkin' Donuts and an
upcoming commercial for Cass Beer.

"Jerome has achieved success in his chosen career path, and when I think back to
when I first met him, I am sure he has stayed true to his steadfast character,"
says Kim Yoon-Sung of IVYMusic. Jerome says being Korean-American has its
advantages and disadvantages in the business. His goal is "to be a respected
entertainer in not only his homeland but on an international level," he says.

Jerome hopes to break away from the typical Korean-American stereotypes on the
screen and has focused his attention on studying Korean to achieve fluency in
his ancestors' tongue. "I'm grateful for the opportunities that I've had up
until this point, I know that my business managers have been pivotal in
spreading the word about me," said Jerome. "I believe that my love for my
profession shows through the pictures and all of the projects that I'm involved
in."


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2000 The Korea Herald


                             474 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                            August 15, 2000, Tuesday

Ansett gain ticks off Nike team

BYLINE: TOM SALOM

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 188 words


ANSETT has made big gains in the latest Olympic sponsorship survey at the
expense of sportswear giant Nike.

The official Olympic airline surged to fourth in the ranking of most recognised
sponsors, five places ahead of arch-rival Qantas.

The Sweeney Sports report to be released today shows that consumers have finally
worked out that Qantas is not a Games sponsor after years of successful ambush
marketing.

Coca-Cola also made substantial gains in the survey, which placed Telstra as the
most recognised Olympic sponsor ahead of AMP and McDonald's.

But Nike, which topped the Sweeney survey in January amid a blaze of publicity,
plummeted to seventh despite the recent launch of its Australian team uniforms.

The Sweeney survey of 1000 people also found that interest in attending the
Games had risen 5 per cent over the past six months.

Swimming was easily the most popular sport and almost 80 per cent ranked the
Olympics as the world-leading sporting event.

But 28 per cent believed it was overrated as an event.

TOP FIVE OLYMPIC SPONSORS

1. TELSTRA

2. AMP

3. McDONALDS

4. ANSETT

5. WESTPAC

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             475 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    Western Morning News Business Supplement

                                October 5, 2000

On the verge of a global trading debut; Westcountry research firm signs deal to
supply unique product range

BYLINE: Chris Street

SECTION: FEATURES; ARTS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 402 words


A CORNISH research and development company has announced this week the
successful completion of a deal with the world-famous sports clothing giant
Nike, to supply hundreds of thousands of products to the Amercian corporate
firm.  The deal, which will place Bodmin-based Micro Thermal Systems (MTS) on a
global trading platform, will mean an order for nearly one million sports
support items, which have been developed exclusively by the Cornish company.

"When you realise that Nike's market share is worth GBP 46 billion, the
potential for us is absolutely staggering," said MTS's managing director John
McLeod.

"Nike has just launched a range of 44 sport support products, and it is amazing
to be a part of that development," added Mr McLeod.

MTS was established in 1992 by John McLeod and Cornish dentist Nigel Middleton,
after they noted the discomfort caused by clothing items which did not allow the
body to breathe sufficiently while undertaking strenuous sporting activity.

Following months of research and the securing of a worldwide patent for their
new product, Stomatex, which has revolutionised the technologies in this area
and won the pair countless trade awards and prestigious regonition from the
Department of Trade and Industry, the British Museum and the Millennium Dome,
this contract could be seen as the next logical step forward for the firm.

The Stomatex product has been tried and approved by world-famous UK boxer Lennox
Lewis and British athletes who competed in the last winter Olympics.

The main element of the design, Neoprine, can be extensively used in the
watersports, soft orthopeadics, sportswear, footwear, equestrian and thermal
protective equipment sectors.

The founding patent was secured in 1993 and additional patents were subsequently
established in 19 of the world's major trading trading nations with three
separate patents in the USA.

MTS has won a number of awards with its revolutionary product, including the
Design Council Award for design and technology in 1992, the DTI's Business Link
Award for marketing in 1998, the Millennium Product Award from the DTI in the
same year, and a permanent place as an exhibition at the British Science
Museum's 'Bio-Mimetics' department.

"The next few months will be very, very exciting for this little Cornish company
which sprang from the innovative ideas of a Cornish dentist," added Mr McLeod.


LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2000 Western Morning News


                             476 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                              July 10, 2000 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Under-16s capture B.C. bronze: Two other Prince George teams third at Nike
provincials

BYLINE: Brian Drewry, Citizen Staff, The Citizen

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 491  words


The Prince George Plastics under-16 girls soccer team won a medal Sunday at the
Nike Provincial B Challenge Cup, it just wasn't the colour they had planned on
taking home.

After the bulk of the team won silver medals at the last two provincial
tournaments, winning gold in front of the home-town crowd was the script they
hoped to follow.

Instead, the local side needed a 1-1 tie against the winless Kelowna Heat in
their final round-robin game to come away with the bronze medal.

After two wins Friday to open the tournament, Dean Lebel's team was still
talking gold, but a disastrous Saturday came back to haunt them. Prince George
fell 1-0 to eventual gold medalist Nanaimo and then lost a heartbreaker 2-1 to
Abbotsford, winners of the silver medal.

``Things just didn't go our way Saturday,'' said Lebel, whose club was also
named the top team from the Interior in the six-team division. ``The girls
worked as hard as they could but we were just a little unlucky Saturday.

``But I'm proud they came out (Sunday) and did what they had to do. It would
have been easy for them to fold their tents, but they showed a lot of heart in
winning the bronze.''

Prince George was unlucky not to beat Kelowna Sunday as striker Tannis McCubbin
and midfielder Chaley Drazenovic peppered Heat goalkeeper Mallory Grant with
numerous shots.

An early penalty kick from Lyndsay Lebel was the lone marker to beat Grant.

``I don't know what it was but we just didn't totally click this weekend,'' said
Drazenovic. ``We had high hopes because we've been playing together for a long
time now, but sometimes things don't go your way, I guess.''

On Friday P.G. Plastics downed Penticton 2-0 and Richmond 3-1.

n The Prince George Lakeland Mills under-15s also earned a bronze medal and were
named the division's Interior champions after they pounded the Kelowna Express
4-0 Sunday at Massey Place Stadium.

After beating the Kootenay Selects 2-1 Friday Prince George lost back-to-back
games to Powell River and the North Shore Vipers. The locals then drew 2-2 with
Burnaby's Cliff Avenue United before downing Williams Lake.

Powell River went on to win the gold medal and was the only team in the entire
tournament to have a perfect 5-0 record.

n The Prince George Jewelers under-17s downed Williams Lake 2-0 Sunday to claim
fourth place and the Interior title for the division.

Prince George finished with a 2-1-2 record, losing only to the West Vancouver
Devils, who went on to take the bronze medal. The locals also beat Nelson and
tied Eagleridge and Gordon Head. Gordon Head, of Victoria, won the gold, while
Eagleridge took the silver

n Prince George Proaction Photography under-12s lost 1-0 to the Kelowna Strikers
in their final round-robin game Sunday and that left them out of the medals in
fourth place.

The locals finished with a 2-3 record with wins over ICSF Phantoms and the
Vernon Selects.

Gordon Head won the gold, with Eagleridge taking the silver and Kelowna the
bronze.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Color Photo: Citizen Photo by Dave Milne; Alex Harris of the Prince George
under-16 all-stars gets a pass away in front of an Abbotsford defender during
their match Saturday night at the Nike Provincial B Challenge Cup at the Rotary
youth fields. Prince George lost 2-1 but went on to claim the bronze medal. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2000 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                             477 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 5, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THOSE 'LOW-PAYING' NIKE JOBS ARE QUITE POPULAR

BYLINE: HOLGER JENSEN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 621 words

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia


MOST Indonesians have never heard of Tiger Woods or they might think it was
unfair.

As Nike's top salesman, so to speak, Woods earns $20 million a year for
promoting the company's products simply by playing golf. The Indonesians who
actually make those shoes and sports clothes earn an average of $786 a year.

An extreme example, perhaps, but that is what globalization is all about.

Nike is one of many American companies that have taken advantage of the world's
economic inequities to make a profit.

Contrary to popular belief, Nike does not manufacture its own products. It is a
marketing and design firm that buys its goods from independent contractors in
underdeveloped nations, where wages are low, and resells them in richer nations
where people can afford to pay $100 for a pair of sneakers.

You may be interested to know that those sneakers cost about $16.75 cents on the
factory floor. Nike's breakdown is 65 percent for materials, 15 percent for
labor, 15 percent factory overhead and 5 percent profit.

Americans don't want to make Nikes. If they did, U.S. wage scales would make the
cost and markups prohibitive.

Worldwide, Nike has contracts with 700 factories that employ 550,000 workers in
50 countries. Indonesia, for example, has 11 footwear factories, 12 apparel
factories and four equipment factories manufacturing Nike products that account
for approximately $1 billion in exports a year.

These plants employ 110,000 Indonesians whose take-home pay averages $65 a
month. This may not be much by our standards but is nearly double Indonesia's
minimum wage of $34 a month and comes with other benefits that include overtime
and holiday bonuses, social security, free health care, free schooling, free
clothing, at least one free meal a day and sometimes free housing.

In a country where 36 million people are unemployed and 60 percent of the
population lives below the poverty line, pegged at $1.50 a day, Nike jobs are
highly desired.

About 85 percent of Nike's workforce consists of women who labor for a few years
in the factories, then go home to get married, further their educations or move
on to better things. Few have any regrets.

Kusniah, 21, and Dunnarli, 22, both work at Astra Graphia Tbk., a factory that
makes Nike tennis shoes 25 miles outside Jakarta. Their only other alternative
would have been wading in rice paddies to help their families eke out an
existence in agriculture.

Kusniah has only a junior high school education, Dunnarli finished high school.
Both met their husbands at the Nike plant in Balarajah, and both consider
themselves lucky to be employed at a time when Indonesia is experiencing massive
political and economic turmoil.

"We have good working conditions and they take care of our health," said
Kusniah. "What more can you ask?"

That said, Nike has come under heavy criticism for running "sweatshops" in
Southeast Asia. And company spokeswoman Tammy Rodriguez is the first to admit
that public pressure forced the company to clean up its act.

Nike has contracted for independent auditing of workplace standards. All
production lines in Indonesia have stopped using solvent-based adhesives and
substituted water-based adhesives that produce no noxious odors. All limit their
workers to 20 hours of overtime a week. And any worker who does not have a high
school education can get one gratis.

The only sweatshops that exist in Indonesia today are those that make
"unbranded" shoes, such as those sold in Target or WalMart. Many are joint
ventures between Indonesians and Koreans or Taiwanese, and industry sources say
conditions in those factories remain "terrible."

But don't blame Tiger Woods.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Holger Jensen is international editor of the Rocky Mountain News in Denver.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             478 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            June 21, 2000, Wednesday

Activists hit timing of 'sorry' ad

BYLINE: By TOM SALOM in Melbourne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 346 words


NIKE has come under fire for using Aboriginal runner Cathy Freeman in a TV
commercial featuring the word sorry 15 times.

Freeman plays only a minor role in the ad but the timing of its release has
angered Aboriginal activists.

National Sorry Day Committee chairwoman Audrey Kinnear claimed yesterday Nike
was trying to exploit the Aboriginal reconciliation process.

She said the continuous use of the word sorry trivialised the issue of whether
the Federal Government should apologise to the stolen generation of Aborigines.

"Why select a word that is current, politically and nationally ?," Ms Kinnear
said.

"By using sorry in so many ways and so many times, they are actually
trivialising what sorry stands for." Nike has used 20 mainly Olympic athletes
who apologise to family, friends and workmates for an obsession with sport.

Most, including runner Steve Moneghetti and footballer James Hird, say sorry in
a lighthearted manner for being driven by success. Freeman does not actually say
sorry in the ad but turns to the camera and says "Can we talk about this later?"
before running off into the distance.

Nike Olympics spokeswoman Megan Ryan said the timing of the "No apologies"
commercial was purely coincidental.

Ms Ryan said Nike was trying to show how athletes had to apologise to a lot of
people they did not have time for during Olympic preparations.

"Whilst we understand that there is some sensitivity and contention around the
sorry issue it was a more behind the scenes look at athletes who make no
apologies for the fact they have to say sorry to a lot of people," she said.
"Sorry is word used by people every day." But Ms Kinnear said Aborigines were
offended that Freeman was being "used" to capitalise on the reconciliation
debate.

"I thought with all the publicity, nationally and internationally, they would
have been a bit more sensitive about it," she said.

"It's not Cathy's fault but many Aboriginal people would be thinking that Cathy
is guilty by association."

Freeman's managers were unavailable for comment.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             483 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                      September 21, 2000, Thursday, FINAL

Why sports?

SECTION: News; A20

LENGTH: 122 words


NBC, the official American broadcaster of the Olympic Games, has pulled Nike's
Horror advertisement off the air. The company's mistake? Emulating about 15,000
camp horror movies, ranging from the Halloween series to Scream, by showing a
chainsaw-wielding murderer chasing a nubile blonde.

In Nike's version, the would-be chainsaw killer wheezes and gasps for breath
after about 10 steps. But the blonde turns out to be an athlete, so fit that she
easily outruns him. Nike's closing message is: ''Why Sport? You'll live
longer.''

Considering that the message is fundamentally upbeat, barring the commercial
seems silly. Or does North American society only tolerate horror sequences when
the girl doesn't get away?


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             485 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 9, 2000

Nike want Fergie as GBP 8m envoy

BYLINE: Ken Lawrence

SECTION: Pg. 96

LENGTH: 179 words


SIR ALEX Ferguson will walk out of Old Trafford and into an GBP 8million job if
he accepts the offer to become a world ambassador for sports equipment giants
Nike.

Sportsmail understands that the American company, synonymous with Tiger Woods,
are ready to pay the Manchester United manager GBP 2m per annum over four years
to roam the globe, promoting their name within football.

Earlier this week Ferguson, who stands down in two years' time, revealed: 'I've
got a lot of offers and one is really staggering.

'It would be a four-year contract for huge money and would involve a lot of
travelling.' That job is almost certainly with Nike, who intend being the
leading brand name in soccer a position they are acquiring in golf thanks to
Woods. Ferguson told the Shareholders United magazine: 'I don't think you want a
manager to grow old in a job. In two years' time I'll have done 16 years, which
is a long time. And there are the pressures. But I still feel young and fit and
in two years I'll still feel young enough to take up other activities.'


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             490 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 17, 2000, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Nike jumps to show off shoe Shox treatment promises 'trampoline-style' effect

BYLINE: Michael McCarthy

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 477 words


Maybe now all guys will be able to jump.

Nike is launching high-tech shoes called Nike Shox that literally
put springs on your feet.

Basketball shoes go on sale Nov. 15, runners and cross-trainers
in December. Suggested retail: $ 150.


Nike Shox feature spring-like columns in the heels made from resilient
foam similar to that used in Formula One race cars' nose pieces.
The "springs" produce a "trampoline-style" effect, Nike claims.

The company hopes the sneakers put bounce in the flat $ 7.6 billion
sneaker market.

"This industry needs a lightning rod right now," says Dave Larson,
Nike's director of brand initiatives. "Sales are flat, and retailers
are looking for a kick-start. We're doing what we can to jazz
up the industry."

The shoe's $ 150 tab puts it at the high end of the market, says
John Horan, publisher of Sporting Goods Intelligence newsletter.
"The average consumer will say that's an awful lot of money for
a sneaker. But the 14-year-old sneaker connoisseurs will think
it's cool and new. And that's where this is aimed."

NBA star Vince Carter, who signed a $ 30 million deal with Nike
in September, is the center of the $ 18 million ad campaign to
introduce the shoe. Carter and four other Team USA players wore
the shoes at the Olympic Games. Sprinters Marion Jones and Maurice
Green also wore Shox during medal ceremonies.

Carter is wearing the shoes in NBA preseason games and the Toronto
Raptors star, along with some others, will wear them for the regular
season.

Nike's advertising campaign is built around a single-word theme:
"Boing." Print and outdoor ads starting Nov. 15 have the shoes,
the logo, the swoosh and just one word of copy: "Boing."

Why "Boing"? Because consumers used the word repeatedly during
testing, Larson says. "We figure one word sums it up."

Some consumers during testing worried about getting debris stuck
in the spring area, but Nike finally decided to keep it open for
the look.

Carter's first Nike TV ads begin in January. Nike is negotiating
to use images of Carter's in-your-face dunk over hapless 7-foot-2
French center Frederic Weis during the Olympics, Larson says.

Picking the NBA's new slam-dunk champion is a smart move by Nike,
marketing experts say.

"Vince is assuming the high-jumping throne from Michael Jordan.
So positioning Nike Shox as successor to Air Jordan is a neat
second-generation idea," says Jack Trout, president of Trout
& Partners.

How much jumping benefit will the average consumer really get?
Larson says: "I say, imagine spring on your heels. They're not
catapults. You're not going to hit your head."

Will the NBA raise red flags over the shoes? Spokesman Mike Bass
says: "We think it's great Nike has come out with a new shoe.
We're looking to get more information on it."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W; Spring in step: The Nike Shox shoe features columns in the
heel made from foam.

                      Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.


                             493 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 27, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Nike Officers Joining P.B.A.

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 6; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 105 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Sept. 26


Already backed by high-tech money, the Professional Bowlers Association added
old-fashioned marketing savvy today with the hiring of two former Nike
executives. Ian Hamilton was named commissioner and Steve Miller will be
president of a P.B.A. that hopes to use the Internet and television to reinvent
itself as a multimedia experience.

Hamilton's job will be to market players, increase sponsorships and oversee the
P.B.A.'s television and Internet properties, essentially, what he did at Nike.

Miller will assist in the development of strategies and will be responsible for
the day-to-day business operation.




http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             495 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Nelson Daily News (British Columbia)

                             July 6, 2000 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

NYS trio challenge for Nike Cup: Three teams battle for provincial bragging
rights in Chilliwack and Prince George

BYLINE: Bruce Fuhr, Nelson Daily News

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 289  words


Three teams will carry the Nelson Youth Soccer flag at the Nike Cup provincial
tournaments in Chilliwack and Prince George.

The U15 and U17 boys as well as the U17 girls have qualified for the six-team
provincial tournaments.

"I'm very confident," said U17 boys coach Mike Sedlbauer, the defending
provincial champs. "We have a very good mix with the potential to win it all
again."

Sedlbauer is hopeful the team can ride the back of provincial-team alternate
goalkeeper Matt Bird. The Nelson keeper has spent most of the spring attending
tryout camps for the U17 boys B.C. team

"With a couple of break in our favor, who knows," said Sedlbauer. "We, of
course, have Matt (Bird) in the net. Plus we're very good in the midfield, led
by Chris Thast and Dave Martin anchors our defence."

The U17s open the tourney Friday morning against Prince George before
pre-tourney favorite, Gordon Head of Victoria. Gordon Head last year won the
Nike A Cup title.

Saturday, Nelson meets Penticton and then Langley in the afternoon. The U17s
conclude the tournament Sunday morning against Cliff Avenue United from Burnaby.

U15 coach Deb Fuhr has a tough task ahead, molding a team that has yet to put it
all together into a provincial champ in Chilliwack.

The U15s, who defeated Cranbrook 2-0 in a best-of-three series to advance to the
Nike Cup, have displayed flashes of brilliance en route to the provincial berth.
However, at a tourney in Kelowna last weekend the team struggled to a 2-1-1
mark.

The same holds true for Sabrina Sedlbauer and the U17 girls. Sedlbauer, off to
Prince George, has seen her team hampered by injuries this season. Those
setbacks led to a 1-2 record during the Kelowna Summer Soccer classic last
weekend in the Okanagan City. N

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Submitted; The U17 boys squad, pictured here after claiming top prize at
the Spokane Spring Classic tourney, head west to defend their Nike Cup title.
The team includes, back row, L-R, Scott Horner, Mark Jacobsen, Will Pratt, Dave
Martin, Justin Penner, Ben Waterer, Chris Thast, Cole Auringer, Tyler Anderson,
Keegan Mickel and coach Mike Sedlbauer. Front, John Mastrobuono, Clay Pyle,
Dennis Bourdon, Jesse Lucas, Robbie Gill, Dave Harvey and Matt Bird. Missing,
Joel Ratcliffe. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2000 Nelson Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             496 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 21, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GLOBAL PROBLEMS DEMAND GROUP SOLUTIONS FIND COMMON GROUND

BYLINE: THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 550 words


SOME things are true even though Phil Knight, the chairman of Nike, believes
them.

Knight recently made news for withdrawing a contemplated $30 million gift to the
University of Oregon after the university balked at joining a coalition -- the
Fair Labor Association -- that was formed by human rights groups, colleges, the
U.S. government and companies such as Nike to alleviate global sweatshop
conditions. Oregon opted to join an alternative group being pushed on college
campuses, the Worker Rights Consortium, which also plans to combat sweatshops,
but refuses to cooperate with any companies, such as Nike.

The natural assumption is that Knight is wrong. The truth is, Nike has a
shameful past when it comes to tolerating sweatshops. But on the question of how
best to remedy those conditions in the future -- which Nike has now agreed to do
-- Knight is dead right and Oregon wrong: The best way to create global
governance -- over issues from sweatshops to the environment -- when there is no
global government is to build coalitions, in which enlightened companies,
consumers and social activists work together to forge their own rules and
enforcement mechanisms. That's what the FLA represents and it's what the WRC
doesn't.

It comes down to this: Do you want a make a point or do you want to make a
difference? The FLA was formed to make a difference. The WRC was formed to make
a point.

The FLA was forged four years ago, and it now includes the Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights, the National Council of Churches, the International Labor Rights
Fund, 135 universities and major apparel companies such as Liz Claiborne, Levi
Strauss, Nike, Reebok and Adidas. After long talks, this diverse group agreed on
a nine-point code for any apparel factory anywhere in the world -- including
rules against forced labor and child labor, as well as freedom of association,
minimum wages, maximum working hours, lighting, bathrooms and safety. They also
agreed on a system of independent monitoring, surprise inspections and
follow-ups.

Companies whose factories comply will be able to sew an "FLA" label into their
clothing, and the 135 universities have agreed that their logos will go only on
FLA-made products.

The WRC, by contrast, is backed by protectionist U.S. unions, such as Unite,
that don't want any system that would give a stamp of approval to any production
outside the United States. That's one reason the WRC won't work with companies.
But that means the WRC has no way of consistently monitoring factories or
following up remedies, and it is only focused on clothing sold on college
campuses.

"If you want to improve people's lives in the absence of a global government,
you need to align the economic interests of the better global companies with the
social interests of the least advantaged people," said Sam Brown, the 1960s
anti-war activist, former U.S. ambassador and now director of the FLA. "We need
to make these companies our allies, not our opponents. We won't change the world
overnight. But it is foolish to dismiss the FLA because it does not go far
enough or fast enough. The issue is how to get from here to there, and the FLA
has a real strategy for harnessing U.S. consumer power to change the lives and
working conditions of real people."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Thomas L. Friedman is a columnist for the New York Times.

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             499 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            June 21, 2000 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Nike's `sorry' ad labelled offensive

BYLINE: JACQUELIN MAGNAY and ANDREW HORNERY

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 392 words


Some of Australia's leading athletes have defended the repeated use of the word
"sorry" in a Nike advertisement, as the company refused to back down and
withdraw the commercial from air, as demanded by some Aboriginal community
leaders.

They have condemned the ad as distasteful and a commercial capitalisation of the
political climate in Australia.

The ad, created by Sydney agency FCB, features 20 athletes, most of whom are
contracted to Nike, saying sorry for such things as being late, not having a
nickname, eating all the eggs or for not being the girl next door because they
are in training.

Cathy Freeman is the only athlete who does not say sorry, instead running past
the camera, saying, "Can I get back to you later?"

Freeman, who married a Nike executive, Mr Sandy Bodecker, last year, is in
London training for the Olympics. But other athletes who appear in the
advertisement defended Nike's apologetic theme.

Hammer thrower Debbie Sosimenko said: "I did the ad because I interpreted it as
saying thank you to all the people that have been understanding of the demands
on my time and helped me get where I am. It wasn't my intention to offend anyone
in any way."

Brisbane rugby league player Gorden Tallis, who is Aboriginal, said he could not
see what the fuss was about.

"I don't see any problem with the ad at all, Cathy Freeman is the biggest
Aboriginal name in the world, and she is the focus of it and she doesn't have a
problem with it, and so I don't."

Ms Audrey Kinnear, of the National Sorry Day Committee, and Ms Lowitja
O'Donoghue, of the Journey of Healing, have called for the commercial to be
taken off air because, they say, it offends and hurts many Australians. Ms
Kinnear said indigenous and non-indigenous Australians had been appalled at the
commercial. "You would think the company would be more sensitive to Cathy at
this stage leading up to the Olympics. It is heavy in our hearts to see she has
been used this way ... It is very much distasteful and trivialises what `sorry'
means to us."

Nike officials said they had no plans to change the advertisement or take it off
air, but welcomed debate with Aboriginal groups on the issue.

"The ad is about showing an insight into the athletes and portraying the
behind-the-scenes life of an athlete," a Nike spokeswoman said. "The ad has
nothing to do whatsoever with reconciliation."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: Cathy Freeman in the commercial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             501 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            October 1, 2000, Sunday

CHILD SLAVE SHAME OF BIG MAN U DEAL

BYLINE: Lucy Panton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 188 words


SOCCER giants Manchester United are at the centre of a child slave labour
scandal after signing a world-record pounds 300million sponsorship deal with
Nike.

Fans will be shocked to learn that kiddies as young as 12 are working for 75p a
day in sweatshops to produce the famous Nike sports gear. At one slum factory in
Cambodia, children toil seven days a week with dangerous machinery in searing
heat.

And Fiona King from Save the Children said: "Situations like this are all too
common." United's 15-year deal with Nike starts in 2002 and will net the club
pounds 20million a season.

One fan, a father of two, saidlast night: "I'm shocked that in their greed they
have signed with a firm that exploits children."

The club's marketing boss Peter Draper said: "We are working with UNICEF to
bring pressure on suppliers and ensure they work to guidelines."

A Nike spokesman said: "We deeply regret what happened in Cambodia and have
pulled out of the factory concerned. It breached our code of conduct."

A Panorama special on BBC1 will expose the shame of child slave labour in
Cambodia on October 16.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             504 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                           September 4, 2000, Monday

Old Nike shoes ace on tennis courts

BYLINE: Louise Brannelly

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 408 words


BRISBANE-based AV Syntec Pty Ltd will use old athletics shoes in its famous
Rebound Ace tennis court surfaces after striking a strategic alliance with US
sportswear giant Nike Inc.

Rebound Ace, one of only four Grand Slam tennis surfaces in the world, has been
used at the Australian Open for the past 12 years and was installed at the NSW
Tennis Centre for the Sydney Olympics.

Now, under a deal with Nike, AV Syntec will incorporate into all its sports
surfaces Nike Grind -- the recycled rubber from old sports shoes collected
through Nike's reuse-a-shoe programme.

"The deal is designed not to have any impact on the costing of our systems -- it
is cost neutral," said Tony Newton, national product manager of AV Syntec's
Rebound Ace Sports division.

"But from a business perspective, certainly we are looking for brand
strengthening from the alliance with Nike . . . and we expect there to be a
dollar benefit to us."

The privately-owned company was formed in Brisbane in 1977 by three industrial
chemists who patented their design for a cushioned surface made from
polyurethane acrylic combinations.

All the liquid materials, such as adhesives, used in the construction of the
Rebound Ace surfaces are manufactured at AV Syntec's Carole Park factory, in
Brisbane's south-west.

However, it outsources all the pre-fabricated rubber mats, which are mostly made
from recycled tyres and will now also include Nike Grind.

Two thousand recycled tyres and 12,000 old shoes were recently used to produce
two new multi-purpose courts and a play area at the South Sydney Police &
Community Youth Club.

That facility is the first Rebound Ace court in Australia to use Nike Grind and
one of 15 locations internationally, reflecting an informal tie between Nike and
AV Syntec over several years.

AV Syntec's sports surfaces division generates an estimated $5 million-plus a
year in revenue, with exports to more than 40 countries accounting for roughly
half of these sales.

"The success of Rebound Ace in the Australian Open has really springboarded us
around the world," Mr Newton said, noting that the major opportunities for
Rebound Ace are overseas.

In the US, Mr Newton said AV Syntec wanted to leverage off Nike's strong ties
with universities and colleges.

"In Australia and throughout the rest of the world we will look at improved
sales through the brand strengthening aspect of having Nike associated with AV
Syntec."

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             506 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                June 02, 2000, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

MAKING NEWS

SECTION: SPORTS; SIDELINE; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 177 words



Tiger changes ball

Tiger Woods is making the switch to the swoosh. After testing a new golf ball
during competition in Germany and in the Memorial, Woods said he formally will
switch to the Nike Tour Accuracy ball when he plays the U.S. Open at Pebble
Beach in two weeks. Woods finished third in the Deutsche Bank Open, then won the
Memorial. "I think it's done pretty good so far," he said last week. The
announcement officially ends a marketing conflict between Woods' top sponsors -
Nike and Titleist - that began last year when Nike entered the ball market.

QUESTION OF THE DAY

The Devil Rays have won two in a row; what is the longest winning streak in
franchise history?

Answer below.

QUOTABLE

"There was never a brawl he wasn't in the middle of as a player or a coach. As a
coach, he threw as many haymakers as any player."

- ELROD HENDRICKS

Orioles coach on former teammate Frank Robinson, now baseball's disciplinarian
(the tough guy who hands out fines and suspensions for fighting)

ANSWER

Six, from April 18-23 last season.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press; Orlando's Nykesha Sales and Taj
McWilliams double-team Charlotte's Andrea Stinson.

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                             509 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 Network World

                                  May 22, 2000

Nike's new 'Net religion;
After stumbling around the Web for four years, the athletic apparel champion has
found its footing.

BYLINE: Bernhard Warner

LENGTH: 729 words



Fifty bucks worth of pizza and beer sounds more like a pool-hall wager than an

Internet investment. But it's precisely what was at stake at Nike's Beaverton,

Ore., headquarters last summer.

Nike CEO Phil Knight had assembled two dozen managers from across the company to
figure out how it could leverage the Internet to grow its $9 billion business.
In earlier sessions, Knight had invited Net luminaries including Broadcast.com
founder Mark Cuban and Novell (NOVL) chairman Eric Schmidt to join his brain
trust to discuss various issues affecting the digital economy. Knight then
personally drafted five case studies and put his lieutenants to work. Managers
were split into teams, each assigned to a case. Topics included e-commerce,
marketing and PR, general operations, finance and sports marketing.

"Phil said there were only two rules," recalls Ian Yolles, a participant in the
sessions. "They were: 'One: I don't want you spending more than five hours on
this. And two: I'm going to give you 50 bucks for beer and pizza to get it
done.'"

The groups engaged in a kind of corporate soul-searching, exploring every
conceivable scenario. What's our e-commerce strategy? Should we seek venture
capital funding for a dot-com spinoff? What about a tracking stock? Should we
divert more money into online advertising? Should we build a
business-to-business exchange for our raw materials suppliers to cut down on
manufacturing costs?

Some ideas, such as the tracking stock, were scrapped. Others, including working
with VCs, were moved to the back burner. And others got the green light; one of
them, the Nike iD custom shoe-building feature, debuted in November. In the end,
Knight and his team zeroed in on the Internet as a prime opportunity for
investment and development.

"The most significant thing about the seminars and the case studies was that it
did exactly what Phil hoped it would do," says Yolles, director of marketing at
Nike.com. "It engaged people in the company to think about the Internet and the
future of Nike."

Knight is making Nike.com the cornerstone of the company's global strategy. Once
little more than a corporate brochure, the site now figures in just about every
aspect of Nike's business, from PR to e-commerce to brand-building and even
original programming. And the Net operation's momentum continues to build: It's
at the heart of the company's new consumer electronics business, launched in
early May. The first Nike-branded gadget to hit stores is a digital-audio device
that plays MP3 files; soon to come are walkie-talkies and watches that double as
heart-rate monitors and altimeters. Over time, each of the gadgets will become
more compatible with Nike.com, allowing for athletes in training, for instance,
to download their heart-rate information to the site and pull up pointers from
pros.

Driving Nike's innovations is the company's obsession with its image. Nike has
been a master marketer for three decades. Its ad campaigns sell more than shoes;
they sell the idea that Nike makes champions.

Air Jordan basketball shoes, inspired by Michael Jordan, vaulted Nike to its
spot as the most-dominant consumer sports brand of the mid '80s and early '90s.
What Jordan did for Nike in the last two decades, Knight thinks the Net can do
for the brand now and in the near future. As he says, the Internet "has a power
equal to [Jordan]" in the new millennium.

More so than at any other time in its 32-year history, Nike needs high-tech
help. For the past two years, the "swoosh" brand has been in a swoon. Fickle
teens have been turning away from white sneakers and toward Timberland hiking
boots and skateboard brands like Vans (VANS) and Skechers (SKX) . Nike's
problems overseas are equally daunting. Weak currencies in Europe and Asia are
expected to depress sales in the very markets where the company was banking on
the greatest growth.

These factors have contributed to declining sales two years running. In
February, the company warned analysts that revenue would fall short of estimates
this year and next year due in part to the woes of its biggest retail partners,
including Just for Feet and the Venator Group (Z) , the parent company of Foot
Locker. The news sent the stock into a tailspin, shedding more than $2 billion
of its market cap.

(It has now recovered half that amount.)


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 Network World, Inc.


                             512 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             May 3, 2000, Wednesday

TIGER JUST WOULDN'T IN NIKE STRIKE

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 163 words


GOLFER Tiger Woods joined thousands of striking actors when he refused to take
part in an advert for sportswear giant Nike.

The world number one had been scheduled to shoot the commercial at Islesworth
Country Club, his home course in Florida. But he wouldn't just do it.

'There is a strike going on and we're abiding by it,' said his agent, Mark
Steinberg.

Woods' decision was greeted enthusiastically by the Screen Actors Guild, which
authorised the strike along with the American Federation of Television and Radio
Artists. About 135,000 actors are represented by the unions.

Bounces

Woods' deal with Nike was being renegotiated and could pay him a reported pounds
50million over five years.

The golfer's TV commercials, including one in which he bounces a golf ball off a
club head, have proved an eye-catching success.

Union membership is mandatory for anyone in the United States who appears in
more than one commercial, athletes included.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                             516 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                       January 7, 2000, Friday, Edition 1

NIKE RECALLS SHIRTS OVER INFERTILITY FEARS

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 440 words



Shirts tainted

by chemical sold only in Europe

Stuart Laidlaw

BUSINESS REPORTER

If your shirt smells after a good run, be thankful.

Nike Inc. shirts in Europe are being recalled after a television report said
they contain a chemical that can lead to infertility.

Shirts in Canada do not contain the chemical, used to keep shirts from smelling
like sweat, Nike Canada Ltd. says.

''None of these jerseys are sold in Canada,'' Nike's Michelle McSorley said.

In fact, she said, preliminary testing by the company yesterday showed that Nike
did not deliberately add the chemical in Europe, either, and that only a small
batch of clothes from factories in Italy and Britain had the chemical.

Complete test results should be available today, she said.

The shirts in question are replica soccer team shirts sold through two German
clothing store chains. Nike made the shirts and sewed on logos provided by the
soccer teams whose uniforms were being replicated.

McSorley said Nike is investigating the possibility that the chemical got on to
the shirts by way of the logos.

''We certainly would not have added it,'' she said, adding that concentrations
of the chemical are very low.

''This isn't a life or death situation.''

The chemical, tributyltin, is a fungicide that removes the smell created by the
bacteria in sweat. It is often used in the shipping industry to control the
growth of mould and mildew, said Thomas Kullick, an environmental spokesman for
a European textile association.

The heavy metal compound is also used in anti-barnacle paint for ships, but has
since 1989 been banned in Canada for environmental reasons for use on any ship
less than 25 metres.

German retailer KarstadtQuelle AG has pulled all Nike soccer shirts from its
shelves, while Metro AG's Kaufhof Warenhaus AG department store unit stopped
selling the soccer shirts and may pull the rest.

''We're immediately removing all shirts from sale, until we know exactly what is
going on,'' said Karstadt spokesperson Michael Scheibe.

He estimated Karstadt has sold more than 10,000 of the shirts, which retail for
about 140 deutsche marks ($110) apiece and are replicas of the Borussia Dortmund
soccer team's yellow-and-black outfit.

Karstadt will refund or exchange shirts it has sold but has not reached an
agreement with Nike on who will pay the cost.

The risks and benefits of tributyltin have been debated for years. A study of
140 snail species has shown that a high concentration of the chemical caused
infertility, sparking calls for a ban on its use.

With files from Bloomberg News


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             525 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 14, 2000

Nike and Gap 'child labour'

SECTION: Pg. 35

LENGTH: 140 words


DESIGNER sports firm Nike and the U.S. retail chain Gap have been accused of
using child labour.

An undercover probe by the BBC Panorama programme suggests the companies are
profiting through the use of sweatshops in the Far East.

Investigators claim that a factory in Cambodia used by both firms employed a
girl of 14 and another of only 12. The legal working age in the country is 15.

The children told researchers that they worked in punishing conditions for 16
hours a day seven days a week, earning GBP 26 per month.

Many workers are said to face bullying from their employers.

One girl said her boss pulled her hair and swore when she refused to work
overtime.

Nike and Gap both claim they are working with the factory to improve the
situation.

The programme is due to be screened tomorrow night.


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             526 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                       September 15, 2000, Friday, FINAL

Woods signs deal for $100M

SECTION: Sports; B2

LENGTH: 310 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


LOS ANGELES -- Tiger Woods has signed a five-year endorsement contract extension
with Nike, a company spokesman said yesterday.

Those close to the negotiations declined to discuss the financial terms of the
contract, but the Associated Press cites ''a source close to the negotiations''
saying it was for $100 million and the largest contract in sports marketing
history.

Nike Golf president Bob Wood said the only formality left in the yearlong
negotiation process was receiving the signed contract in his office. He said he
expected to receive it this morning.

''The negotiating has been done for several weeks now,'' Wood said. ''The only
thing left is the logistics of physically having the contract here.''

Mark Steinberg, Woods' agent at IMG, said the contract had not yet been signed,
but said the negotiations were complete and the signature was a mere formality.

''All of the deal points are in place,'' Steinberg said. ''There are very few
times in a player or an endorser's life that both truly feel they got what they
deserved. But, in this case, they do. I would venture to say that Tiger is very
happy.''

The deal, which calls for Woods to continue wearing Nike clothes and using Nike
balls, is comparable in length to any deal Michael Jordan had while he was an
active player.

Jordan's endorsement contract terms were never made public, but Wood hinted that
Woods' package was worth more than anything Jordan made while he was an active
NBA player.

Earl Woods, Tiger's father, said he did not know the financial details of the
contract, but said, if the $100- million speculation was correct, it was worth
it.

''It doesn't surprise me at all,'' Earl Woods said. ''He's worth every bit of
it. And when the next contract comes around, this one will look like chump
change and peanuts compared to that one.''


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             528 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

Harnessing consumer power: Anti-sweatshop group wants to make a difference, not
just make a point

BYLINE: THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Editorial / Op-ed; B3

LENGTH: 726 words


Some things are true even though Phil Knight, the chairman of Nike, believes
them.

Knight recently made news for suddenly withdrawing a contemplated $30-million
gift to the University of Oregon after the university balked at joining a
coalition - the Fair Labour Association (FLA) - that was formed by human-rights
groups, colleges, the U.S. government and companies such as Nike to alleviate
global sweatshop conditions. Oregon opted to join an alternative group being
pushed on college campuses, the Worker Rights Consortium (WRC), which also plans
to combat sweatshops but refuses to co-operate with any companies, such as Nike.

Shameful Past

The natural assumption is that Knight is wrong. The truth is, Nike has a
shameful past when it comes to tolerating sweatshops. But on the question of how
best to remedy those conditions in the future - which Nike has now agreed to do
- Knight is dead right and Oregon wrong: the best way to create global
governance - over issues from sweatshops to the environment - when there is no
global government is to build coalitions, in which enlightened companies,
consumers and social activists work together to forge their own rules and
enforcement mechanisms. That's what the FLA represents and it's what the WRC
doesn't.

We've heard plenty this year about the downsides of globalization. The question
is what to do about it. The more radical protesters, such as the WRC, want to
trash multinationals and get the World Trade Organization to set rules for
workers and the environment, not just for trade. And what practical effect have
the protesters had so far? Zero.

So what to do? Well, it comes down to this: do you want a make a point or do you
want to make a difference? The FLA was formed to make a difference. The WRC was
formed to make a point.

The FLA was forged four years ago, and it now includes the Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights, the National Council of Churches, the International Labour Rights
Fund, 135 universities and major apparel companies such as Liz Claiborne, Levi
Strauss, Nike, Reebok and Adidas. After long talks, this diverse group agreed on
a nine-point code for any apparel factory anywhere in the world - including
rules against forced labour and child labour, as well as freedom of association,
minimum wages, maximum working hours, lighting, bathrooms and safety. They also
agreed on a system of independent monitoring, surprise inspections and
follow-ups, which is now being tested in five developing countries.

FLA Label

Companies whose factories comply will be able to sew an ''FLA'' label into their
clothing, and the 135 universities have agreed that their logos will go only on
FLA- made products. Global brands can't afford any longer to be associated with
sweatshops, and the FLA creates a credible system for empowering consumers to
punish dirty companies and reward improving ones.

The WRC, by contrast, is backed by protectionist U.S. unions, such as Unite,
that don't want any system that would give a stamp of approval to any production
outside the United States. That's one reason the WRC won't work with companies.
But that means the WRC has no way of consistently monitoring factories or
following up remedies, and it is only focused on clothing sold on college
campuses.

It's good that there's a WRC out there noisily protesting against sweatshops and
embarrassing companies. But the WRC is not a substitute for the FLA, which has a
comprehensive strategy for upgrading the whole apparel industry. It's a pity
that some cowardly college presidents - intimidated by a few vocal and often
uninformed students - have quit the FLA in favour of the WRC.

''If you want to improve people's lives in the absence of a global government,
you need to align the economic interests of the better global companies with the
social interests of the least advantaged people,'' said Sam Brown, the 1960s
anti-war activist, former U.S. ambassador and now director of the FLA. ''We need
to make these companies our allies, not our opponents. We won't change the world
overnight. But it is foolish to dismiss the FLA because it does not go far
enough or fast enough. The issue is how to get from here to there, and the FLA
has a real strategy for harnessing U.S. consumer power to change the lives and
working conditions of real people.''


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             529 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                      DECEMBER 22, 2000 Friday SF EDITION

WILLIAMS MAY HAVE $40 MILLION PACT

BYLINE: COMPILED BY THE INQUIRER STAFF

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 790 words


Venus Williams, the tennis star, yesterday signed a multiyear contract extension
with Reebok reportedly worth $40 million over five years, which would make it
the richest endorsement deal for a female athlete.

"I won't deny the reports that have been put out there," said Angel Martinez,
chief marketing officer for Reebok.

Huge endorsement deals are rare in women's sports. Monica Seles signed a
five-year, $25 million deal with Nike. Martina Hingis has a six-year Nike
contract that pays close to $30 million.

By contrast, Nike reportedly has a $100 million deal with Tiger Woods, and
Michael Jordan is getting $40 million a year in endorsement income two years
after his retirement.

HOCKEY

Pittsburgh Penguins forward Matthew Barnaby was suspended for four games by the
NHL yesterday after an altercation with a fan.

* Detroit's Nicklas Lidstrom was the leading vote-getter for World team
defensemen for the NHL All-Star Game with 124,639 votes. Dallas' Sergei Zubov
was second with 86,399.

Pittsburgh winger Jaromir Jagr led all players on the World all-star ballot with
152,350 votes. The leaders at other positions were Buffalo goaltender Dominik
Hasek with 118,326 votes and Colorado center Peter Forsberg with 113,700.

PRO BASKETBALL

The NBA fined Miami Heat guard Tim Hardaway $5,000 for unsportsmanlike conduct
and Utah Jazz coach Jerry Sloan $7,500 for verbal abuse of officials for their
actions in games Wednesday night.

COLLEGES

The Minnesota football players who improperly used an athletic department
long-distance access code have repaid the school for the phone calls and are
back on the team, officials said.

* Pittsburgh basketball coach Ben Howland dismissed center Chris Seabrooks from
the team for what was called behavior detrimental to the program. The behavior
was not specified. . . . New Mexico forward Wayland White was suspended for two
games for academic reasons.

* A group of college basketball promoters sued the NCAA in Columbus, Ohio, over
a rules change designed to end preseason basketball tournaments.

The conference commissioners voted in September to eliminate the events, which
count as one game toward a school's 28-game maximum regardless of how many
preseason games the team plays.

Gazelle Group Inc., which is based in Princeton and is one of the five groups
that filed the lawsuit, said NCAA officials made the change "to maintain their
monopoly over Division I college basketball events."

* Texas Tech said it suspended freshman linebacker Marquis Turner for the
galleryfurniture.com Bowl and the 2001 season, so he could sort out "personal
problems."

* Mississippi State declared Fred Smoot, an all-American cornerback,
academically ineligible. He will not play in the Independence Bowl against Texas
A&M.

* A day after a judge ordered the NCAA to restore Muhammed Lasege's eligibility,
Louisville did, and will allow the 6-foot-11 Nigerian recruit to play.

Lasege, 20, sought a temporary injunction after the NCAA ruled him ineligible
for signing a $9,000 contract to play basketball in Russia in 1998.

BASEBALL

The Montreal Expos signed outfielder Tim Raines, 41, to a minor-league contract.

* The Chicago White Sox agreed to one-year contracts with outfielder Magglio
Ordonez, shortstop Tony Graffanino, and third baseman Herbert Perry. Ordonez
will get $3.75 million. Terms for the others were not disclosed.

* The Texas Rangers re-signed pitcher Justin Thompson, a lefthanded starter who
missed the 2000 season with problems in his pitching shoulder after being
acquired in the Juan Gonzalez trade with Detroit. He was signed to a one-year,
$2.42 million contract.

* Pittsburgh Pirates catcher Jason Kendall signed a six-year, $60 million
contract extension.

* Infielder Mike Caruso, claimed on waivers by the Seattle Mariners last week,
has been sent back to the White Sox because he was injured. Caruso spent last
season at triple-A Charlotte.

* First baseman David Segui has returned to the Baltimore Orioles, signing a
four-year contract reportedly worth $28 million.

Elsewhere:Rich Aurilia and utility infielder Felipe Crespo agreed to multiyear
contracts with the San Francisco Giants and avoided salary arbitration. ... Ron
Coomer became a free agent when the Minnesota Twins declined to offer the first
baseman a contract for next season. . . . The Kansas City Royals did not offer
contracts to pitchers Tim Byrdak and Jeff D'Amico and outfielder Todd Dunwoody,
making them free agents.

NOTEWORTHY

Austria's Cristoph Gruber won the men's giant slalom in Bormio, Italy, beating
Eric Schlopy, whose second-place finish was the best by an American man in the
event since 1983.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Sports in Brief

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             530 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 22, 2000

JEWISH BOYS TICKED OFF FOR SPORTING NIKE LOGO

BYLINE: FROM TOBY MOORE IN NEW YORK

LENGTH: 188 words


JEWISH elders are in uproar over a trend among fashion-conscious orthodox youths
to wear skull caps - more formally known as yarmulkes - emblazoned with the Nike
tick logo.

"There's some kind of disconnect between a religious symbol and a company
emblem," said Rabbi Andrew Bachman, a spiritual leader in New York. His
colleague, Rabbi Yerachmeil Milstein, has said he will only permit the
traditional black velvet in his school. The cap, he said, represents a
relationship with God. "Somehow that message can get lost with all this brand
noise. When it becomes this commercial, it loses its true significance."

The concern has become so intense that Nike has been forced to deny it has
anything to do with the trend. "The yarmulke, as venerable and noble an article
of clothing as it is, is not something we sell among our performance athletic
line," insisted Vado Manager, Director of Global Issues.He blamed unlicensed
traders for the trend. However, to the dismay of rabbis, the company has made
clear it does not plan to try too hard to halt the misuse of its copyright,
otherwise known as free advertising.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                             533 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                                October 28, 2000

Revolutionary sportswear for everyone

BYLINE: By Loretta Ann Soosayraj

SECTION: Pickings; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 408 words


EVER since Tiger Woods sported that cap with the simple Nike signature,
the red swoosh, every sportsman wants to wear that same "badge".

From being a brand promoting classy sportswear, Nike has since moved to
introducing revolutionary sportswear and goods.

Add a touch of glamour to your sweaty and grimy exercise routines with
Nike's full-length, yoga and workout pants.

Check out the stretchy lycra pants that gives the much desired slimmer
silhouette while not compromising on ease of movement. Who says we all
can't look like Jennifer Lopez?

And then there are the well-cut tops that provide support and optimum
comfort.

What lends character to the pieces are the fashionable construction and
placement of straps, innovative stitching and seams.

Aside from the workout theme clothes, Nike also brings other sports-
inspired tops. The sports brand's latest collection features tops that are
comfortable and fashionable.

The fabrics used effectively keep sweat away, leaving the wearer dry
even after a strenous workout.

Check out the D.R.I. Fit Tees that keep that sticky feeling at bay.

From mock turtlenecks to boatnecks, necklines echo the styles of the
season.

Sleeves go from three-quarter to cap sleeves to flatter all body types.

The minimalist cuts further emphasise body parts that you want to show
off.

Nike is also introducing the revolutionary "Presto" sports shoe that is
described as the T-shirt for feet!

It may be zany but it will give your precious feet the comfort they need
in a kaleidoscope of colours.

The revolutionary sizing exhibits the flexibility of the range. Once the
laces are adjusted to the desired tightness, the shoe can be slipped on
and off. No more struggling with pesky tangled laces.

Women's tees are available at Nike-only stores. Head on down to the
Women's Specialty Store on the first floor of Bangsar Shopping Complex in
Kuala Lumpur.

And do pop by the newly-opened flagship store in KL Plaza (second floor)
as it not only offers the largest selection in Malaysia, it also happens
to be the largest store in Southeast Asia. Yet another exciting milestone
for Nike indeed.

At the launch of the flagship store, there was, in true Nike style,
nothing predictable or ordinary. Interesting games were organised, where
winners took home Nike goodies.

Game stalls were also set up where people could win a T-shirt or a flask
just by tossing a ball.


LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture - Pix without caption.  Picture - Stylish and colourful ... Add
a touch of glamour to your exercise routine with fashionable sportswear.

            Copyright 2000 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                             537 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                            January 21, 2000, Friday

NBA KNIGHT-MARE ; JORDAN-NIKE PARTNERSHIP CAN'T BE GOOD FOR GAME

BYLINE: Phil Mushnick

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 107

LENGTH: 642 words


IF I were an NBA team owner outside of the Wizards, I'd be very unsettled by the
news that Michael Jordan's in the ownership loop. After all, from the time
Jordan was an NBA pup, Nike has been right there, and in a big, big way.

While long ago diagnosed as Nike-intolerant, I also learned that to
underestimate the power and methods of Nike is to miss the bigger picture.

Alonzo Mourning said it a few years back when his contract negotiations with the
Hornets broke down after he was drafted. Asked which NBA team he planned to work
for, Mourning said, "I work for Nike." Just like his college coach, John
Thompson.

Jordan, still Nike's most valuable property, now doubles as part-owner and
director of basketball operations of an NBA team. Hmmm.

How long before Nike becomes Jordan's silent but highly visible partner in the
Wizards? How long before Nike provides the Wizards a salary-cap end-run by
paying huge endorsement fees to players in order to load the team with
hand-picked Nike stars? Then, how long before Team Nike buys its way into the
NBA Finals?

On the pro level, such a precedent exists. In 1994, when Deion Sanders went from
the Falcons to the 49ers, it was widely reported that he had to take a paycut to
do so. It made for a sweet story, but it was nonsense.

Sanders had his Nike salary increased as a pre-determined element of the deal to
join the Niners. Nike reasoned that the national exposure that Sanders would
receive by playing for a contender instead of the miserable Falcons was worth
its weight in cash.

So Nike made up the difference, and perhaps more, in Sanders' football salary.
Nike, as much as the Niners, was responsible for Sanders changing teams. And,
not that Sanders made all the difference, but the Niners, with Nike's help, won
the Super Bowl.

What prevents the Wizards, through Jordan, from serving as a Nike-laundering
operation in the same manner and then some? Technically, nothing. In fact, it's
hard to imagine that Nike would not try to thoroughly exploit such an "in."

Why not? Sneaker companies have met little resistance buying college programs.
Many big-time Division I team basketball teams essentially operate as warehouse
showrooms for sneaker company-owned players and coaches in return for sneaker
company cash and recruits.

And once the schools learned just who owns their coaches and players, once they
learned the drill, did they stand up and demand that such influence peddling
cease? Hell, no. They got in line for their cut.

Some colleges have sold exclusives to sneaker companies that disallow a stitch
of clothing carrying the school's name or logo from being sold unless the
merchandise shares the spotlight with the sneaker company's name or logo.

The sneaker companies even try to make deals that include clauses through which
the college agrees to prevent any negative publicity about the companies in
school-operated media. Hush money.

The largesse of the sneaker companies, what I'd call racketeering, the schools
identify as "good corporate citizenship." Heck, the schools and sneaker
companies would have you believe that until they showed up, everyone played
basketball in their bare feet.

Remember, Nike has the power to force Olympic Dream Team members, including
Jordan, to literally wrap themselves in American flags, not to express their
national pride, but to cover the Olympic-issue Reebok logos on their uniforms.

And now Jordan, Nike's all-time salesman, is doubling as a hands-on executive
and part-owner of an NBA team. Why do I get the feeling that out there in
Nikeland, Oregon, either someone's working on a plan, or the plan is ready to
enter Phase II?


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TEAM NIKE:Now that Michael Jordan runs the Wizards, how long before he
and Nike boss Phil Knight (above right) load up his team with hand-picked Nike
stars? AP

           Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                             538 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 31, 2000

MAN UTD SHAREHOLDERS VOICE FEARS OVER NIKE DEAL

BYLINE: BY DAVID HELLIERCHIEF CITY CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 373 words


A GROUP of Manchester United shareholders has warned the Premiership football
club to be wary of entering into a multi-million pound partnership with Nike.

The call by Shareholders United follows allegations that the sportswear giant
sub-contracts orders to a factory in Cambodia that employs children to work in
sweat-shop conditions.

United has been rumoured to be close to signing a 10-year commercial deal with
Nike worth nearly GBP 300million.

In a letter to club chief executive Peter Kenyon, Shareholders United wrote:
"United should not conclude any deal with Nike until you are totally satisfied
that it is 100 per cent clean on this issue the use of child labour ."

The club has recently agreed a new charter with its supporters and shareholders
which states: "Manchester United plc opposes the exploitation of child labour.
No orders will be placed with suppliers employing child labour under the age
allowed in the country concerned."

A recent BBC Panorama programme alleged Nike used a factory in Cambodia that
employs children under the age of 15, the legal working age in the country.
Shareholders United representative Michael Crick urged the club to make the most
thorough investigation over a potential shirt supplier's records.

"It will not be good enough simply to take a potential partner's word for it,"
he said.

A spokesman for United said yesterday it was inconceivable the club would enter
into an agreement with a company if there was an alleged problem over use of
child labour.

"Nike or anybody else would have to convince Manchester United that it was doing
all it could to eradicate this problem," he said.

United backed a worldwide Unicef campaign against exploitative child labour, he
added.

Shareholders United was formed during the controversial GBP 365million takeover
bid for the group by satellite operator BSkyB.

In its early days the pressure group had a stormy relationship with the club's
board, then led by Martin Edwards.Recently, however, the club has taken the
views of the group more seriously. "The plc has taken a radically different
approach to relations with shareholders and supporters over the past year," the
group said on its website.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                             540 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                      May 11, 2000 Thursday Final Edition

Shoestring operation pays off for local inventor: Nike snaps up U of A prof's
design for speedometer

SOURCE: The Edmonton Journal

BYLINE: Andy Ogle, Journal Staff Writer

SECTION: News; Pg. A1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 537 words

DATELINE: Edmonton

A runner's speedometer invented by a University of Alberta engineering professor
has been snapped up by Nike as one of five new high-tech devices for the
"digital athlete," the sports marketing giant announced Wednesday.

The device, which Nike will sell with a version of its popular Triax wristwatch
for $199 US starting in October in the United States and likely soon after that
in Canada, consists of sensors and a microprocessor designed to clip on to
shoelaces.

It's a sophisticated, wireless gadget measuring stride length and velocity. It
transmits the information to the watch, which gives constant speed and distance
readouts.

Ken Fyfe, who teaches mechanical engineering at the U of A, came up with the
idea a few years ago while talking with his wife, Anne Galloway, about ideas for
a design project to give his students.

A veteran marathon runner, she suggested something to help runners improve their
training. Fyfe, also a runner and coach of the Leduc Track club, decided he
would work on it himself rather than give it to his students.

He later formed Dynastream Innovations Inc. with his younger brother Kip, an
electrical engineer in Cochrane, to further develop prototypes and shop them
around to sports equipment manufacturers, including Nike.

Fyfe said his invention, which Nike is labelling the SDM (Speed Distance
Monitor) Triax 100, is a big improvement over the typical pedometer.

A pedometer simply counts how many steps you take and then uses what you say is
your average stride length to tell you how far you've gone, he said.

"This thing is actually measuring each and every stride. So even if you change
your stride length, this calculates that." The device has an accuracy of more
than 97 per cent.

Nike vice-president Clare Hammil said: "The simple question when you go out for
a run, go for a walk, you're out hiking, is how far did I go and how fast did I
move?"

Nike created a new division -- Nike Techlab -- to market the new products
including a heart monitor, a portable digital audio player, a backcountry
wristwatch that will act as a compass and provide weather readings, and a new
two-way radio for snowboarders, hikers and the like.

Fyfe said getting the product to this stage has been long and sometimes
difficult. Some of the research was funded by the Natural Sciences and
Engineering Research Council. The university's industry liaison office helped
him get a patent and provided some money to develop prototypes.

At one point the Fyfes' company ran out of money and they had to shut it down.

Kip ran the company out of his garage, said Fyfe. And a meeting with Nike
officials was conducted around a kitchen table.

"It has literally been running on a shoestring, no pun intended," he said.

"So many roadblocks had to be overcome. But it has been a lot of fun to work on.
What better way to do your research than put this thing on and go outside to run
for an hour."

IN THE LONG RUN...

- U of A professor Ken Fyfe's invention will first be marketed to runners who
want to find out how fast and far they're going.

- But down the road it could be used to help people with artificial limbs
enhance their sense of motion and position.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chris Schwarz, The Journal; Ken Fyfe watches while distance
runner Jenny Van Kempen tests the speedometer on a treadmill. Colour Photo:
Grant Black, Calgary Herald, Southam Newspapers; Ken Fyfe's speedometer measures
a runner's stride length and velocity.

TYPE: Business

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             541 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 15, 2000

Woods wins $ 100m Nike deal

BYLINE: Ian Broadley

SECTION: Pg. 38

LENGTH: 345 words


Nike has reached agreement with Tiger Woods to pay him a reported $ 100m - the
richest endorsement in the history of sport. Woods' agent, Mark Steinberg, of
the International Management Group, said yesterday the deal, covering a five
-year period to be Nike's worldwide brand leader, would be signed within the
next few days.

"It is a very, very fair deal, which compensates Tiger for what he has done, not
just for Nike, but for the game of golf," said Steinberg.

"I cannot imagine there has ever been a more creative contract, there are so
many different parameters. He is setting standards and marks that have never
been thought of - on and off the course."

Nike paid Woods $ 40m when he turned professional five years ago and were
rewarded with a rise in global sales and profits through his increasing
dominance in golf.

"The value received now will be a bargain when next time comes around," insisted
his father, Earl, who controls his son's financial investments. "There is no
doubt he is going to get better. He is far from reaching his potential.

"This reflects the growing nature of Tiger in the world market. But it is not
about money with him, and it never will be about money."

Woods Sr argued that other players would not benefit from increased sponsorship,
because of Nike's benchmark deal. "My gut feeling is that Tiger is so special
and unique, that what he accomplishes in the markets has no effect on others,"
he maintained. "Where his impact will be is in the next television contract.
That is where the players will capitalise."

The US PGA Tour was able

to double purses after

renegotiating television contracts two years ago. When these are up for renewal
the Tour will be in a much stronger bargaining position, because TV ratings for
golf in the USA have risen steeply thanks to Woods.

According to his associaties, Woods made $ 50m last year from all sources and
his net worth was calculated to be $ 150m. The Nike deal will take him
significantly closer to becoming sport's first

dollar billionaire.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                             542 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                               September 16, 2000

Tiger signs $ 100m Nike contract

BYLINE: By DAVID DAVIES, Guardian Service

SECTION: CITY EDITION; SPORT; GOLF/ENDORSEMENTS; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 500 words


Tiger Woods, winner of the last three major championships and four of the last
five, has signed the richest endorsement contract in the history of sport - for
$ 100 million.

That is what it has cost Nike to retain his services to September 2006, and
yesterday the president of Nike Golf, Bob Wood, said: "We are really, really
happy. We have a comprehensive agreement that covers Tiger from head to toe,
plus using our golf ball."

The contract is said by the American magazine Golfweek to be "far beyond
anything Michael Jordan received". Quoting a scource close to Nike, it went on:
"This is absolutely the richest-ever sporting endorsement. Nothing has ever been
close."

Not that it unduly impresses Earl Woods, Tiger's father. When his son turned
professional in August 1996 the golfing world gasped when Nike paid $ 40m for
his signature. But Earl, with an eye to the future, described that sum as being
only "chump change" and yesterday he was similarly guarded.

"The next contract," he said, "in 2006 will make that $ 100 million look like a
bargain. There's no doubt that Tiger is going to get better, he's far from
having reached his potential. This deal reflects the growing stature of Tiger in
world sports, and that is just going to continue to grow."

Woods has already won nine tournaments on the US Tour this year, the first to
reach that mark since Sam Snead won 11 in 1950, and at St Andrews this year he
became the youngest man ever to win a career grand slam when he won the Open by
eight shots.

Prior to that he had won the 2000 US Open by 15 shots, and his first major
championship, the US Masters in 1997, was won by 12 shots. Only in the US PGA of
1999, when he was chased to the line by Sergio Garcia before winning by one
shot, was the slam in any danger.

He has ruled world golf in the past two years and, as Nike has discovered, such
brilliance has its price. There is even scope for extending that contract
because Nike, as of now, does not make golf clubs, and so that aspect of the
Woods career is not covered by the current agreement. But it is anticipated that
they will start, and when they do it will doubtless cost them yet more millions.

The scale of the new contract is bad news for the television companies in
America who will shortly have to renegotiate their contract to cover the US
Tour. The Tour organisers will be sure to capitalise on the fact that ratings
soar whenever Tiger is anywhere near contention and will demand yet another huge
increase, so enabling prize funds to go up yet again.

That in turn could be bad news for the European Tour which is already losing
many of its best players to America, after the last round of TV talks produced
purses of between (pounds) 3m and (pounds) 5m sterling for many events in the
US.

If that figure were to rise substantially yet again then even players like Lee
Westwood, Darren Clarke and Colin Montgomerie might be tempted to play more in
the States, diminishing the attraction of European events.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2000 The Irish Times


                             543 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                      September 20, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL

NBC gives Nike ad the boot: The controversial footware maker has once again puts
its foot in its promotional mouth, Kelly Cryderman reports.

BYLINE: Kelly Cryderman

SECTION: Business; E1 / Front

LENGTH: 629 words


Known for its edgy and sometimes controversial ads, Nike has stirred up a
tempest in the U.S. because of its new Olympic commercial featuring a
chainsaw-wielding maniac chasing a scantily-clad female athlete.

NBC, the American broadcaster of the Games, has pulled the Horror ad -- part of
the Why Sport? campaign -- off the air. Horror features U.S. 1,500-metre runner
Suzy Hamilton being pursued through a house and dark woods by a man sporting a
mask, similar to the one the Jason character wears in the Friday the 13th
flicks.

Unlike most horror movies, where the killer easily catches up with the beautiful
victim, even though she's in a flat-out run and he's limping along, Ms. Hamilton
gets a burst of energy and easily dashes to safety as the bad guy slogs off in
defeat. The line at the end of the cheeky ad concludes, ''Why Sport? You'll live
longer.''

The network received hundreds of complaints that said the ad is misogynistic and
promotes violence against women.

NBC spokeswoman Maria Battaglia says the ad was yanked because of ''adverse
audience reaction.'' The network, she says, had concerns about the ad even
before it aired.

''We made it very clear to Nike that we were accepting the ad with a strong
provision that we would monitor audience reaction,'' Ms. Battaglia said.

The ads will no longer run on NBC, CNBC or MSNBC, though two other ads in the
Why Sport? series -- one featuring U.S. Olympic cyclist and two-time Tour de
France champion Lance Armstrong performing mouth-to-mouth resuscitation on an
elephant, and another that portrays a battle between a gladiator and a
skateboarder -- will continue to be seen on the network. The ads were never sent
to CBC, but ESPN continues to run all three of the commercials.

This is not the first time Nike has come into trouble with Olympic-time
commercials. During the 1996 Atlanta Summer Games, Nike enraged some Olympic
athletes with such in-your-face slogans as, ''You don't win the silver, you lose
the gold,'' and, ''If you can't stand the heat, get out of Atlanta.''

And Nike employees handed out ''Just Do It U.S.A.'' signs in ad-free zones,
putting bees in the bonnets of Olympic officials. Fans, officials worried, were
giving Nike free exposure by flashing signs that incorporated the famous Nike
slogan during televised events.

Scott Reames, a spokesman at Nike's headquarters in Beaverton, Oregon, says Nike
has been on the vanguard of the advertising world with its edgy campaigns. He
says the company expected a strong reaction from the Horror commercial.

''People expect that from us,'' Mr. Reames says. ''I don't think (consumers)
expect us to deliver cheesy, safe, bland advertising . .. for us to create ads
with puppy dogs, flowers and cheery music. That's just not who we are.''

Mr. Reames said Nike isn't trying to offend or make light of violence against
women. ''In our view, Suzy Hamilton is the victor, not the victim because of her
athleticism.''

And though Nike has fielded complaints regarding the ad, it has received
compliments, too.

''One woman called and said, 'I'm a runner. This is fantastic. Thank you for not
portraying us as weak and scared,' '' Mr. Reames said.

Anne Hale, a marketing professor at the University of Victoria, disagrees. She
said the message of a happy outcome gets lost in the slasher-film cliche, and
she wondered whether Nike tested the ad with women. ''It does reinforce (the
idea) of women as victims. It's a good outcome, but the parametres are still a
male aggressor and female victim. That is the stereotype that I think women, as
a rule, are getting very tired of.''

She said it's also inappropriate for that violent an ad to be shown during the
Olympics, when a lot of young children are watching.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CP Color Photo: NBC says it had concerns about Nike's chainsaw ad even
before it aired and had warned the company that audience reaction would be
monitored. The ESPN cable sports network, owned by Disney, is still running the
ad.; Color Photo: Suzy Hamilton, a 1,500-metre runner on the United States
Olympic team, is the fleet-footed 'victim' who escapes the chainsaw- wielding
Jason-like character in one of three ads Nike has produced for the Olympics. The
chainsaw ad was pulled by NBC after viewer complaints that the ad was
mysoginistic and promoted violence against women.

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             544 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                    November 4, 2000 Saturday EARLY EDITION

Man United signs with Nike

BYLINE: Calgary Herald

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. C7

LENGTH: 107 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Manchester United, the world's richest soccer club, said Friday it had signed a
sponsorship and merchandising deal with sports gear giant Nike worth $ 439
million Cdn.

United have won the English league title six times in the last eight years and
were European champions in 1999.

The club said it would grant exclusive rights to sponsor its gear, manufacture
and sell its merchandise and operate the club's existing retail operations.

The agreement starts in August 2002 when the club's current sponsorship contract
with Umbro expires and will run for 13 years.

Nike will have the option to end the arrangements in 2008.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Business; Sports

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             547 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                  Computerworld

                                 July 10, 2000

Nike Web Hijacking Sparks Finger-Pointing;
Company trades blame with NSI and host

BYLINE: Ann Harrison

SECTION: NEWS - EARLY; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 605 words

The hijacking of Nike Inc.'s Web site last month has sparked an international
argument over whether the footwear company or Internet domain-name registrar
Network Solutions Inc. (NSI) should bear responsibility for the temporary theft
of www.nike.com.
On June 21, a group calling itself S-11 redirected traffic from www.nike.com to
servers at a Web hosting company in a slap at both Nike and the World Economic
Forum. Now, the hosting firm is threatening legal action against Nike.
Greg Lloyd Smith, director of FirstNet Online (Management) Ltd. in Edinburgh,
said the wayward Nike traffic swamped his company's Web servers and impaired
service to its real customers. After unsuccessfully trying to bill Nike for use
of his company's servers, Smith said he's preparing to sue the Beaverton,
Ore.-based company for neglecting to secure its Internet domain.
Blame-Shifting
Nike, in turn, said responsibility lies with NSI in Herndon, Va. Changes to the
status of Nike's domain name are supposed to be made only via NSI's security
system, said Nike spokesman Corby Casler. But NSI allowed S-11's spoofed e-mail
to change Nike's registry without requiring a password, she claimed.
Casler added that Nike has locked down any further changes to its registration
information at NSI. Nike is also working with the FBI and local police in Oregon
"to see exactly what happened and who is liable," she said.
Smith disputed the claim by Nike that it had access to the Crypt-PW encryption
system through NSI, and he charged that the footwear maker subscribed to a level
of security that lets changes to its information be made from an approved e-mail
address. "A responsible company would not deny the fact that their domain was
stolen because they did not have satisfactory security in place," Smith said via
e-mail.
However, Casler insisted that Smith's claims are inaccurate and said Nike
doesn't consider itself liable for the unintended usage of FirstNet's Web
servers. Smith "did try to bill us for it, and our response is we are both
victims and the real problem is [with] whoever it was who hacked into the
system," Casler said.
Smith got into a legal battle with Amazon.com Inc. last year after the company
won an injunction against him for using the Amazon.gr domain name in Greece in
an alleged attempt to coerce a partnership. But Smith rejected any suggestion of
complicity against Nike. "Our involvement was as an injured party," he said.
NSI, which declined to comment on the circumstances surrounding the Nike domain
theft, has been criticized for similar thefts, including the heist of 1,300
domains from New York-based Internet.com in May. Alan Meckler, chairman and CEO
of Internet.com, said NSI told his company that its information had been changed
by forged documents sent via fax.
NSI officials "deny that it's their fault," Meckler said. "But the fact is that
if you pay [NSI], you are presuming that in the morning the last thing you have
to worry about is whether you own your domains."
But Connie Ellerbach, a partner at Fenwick and West, a law firm in Palo Alto,
Calif., said past case law indicates that NSI wouldn't be liable for the theft
because it's merely a conduit for domains and takes no responsibility for their
validity or for changes in domain-name registrations. A recent domain theft suit
brought against NSI by Sex.com was settled in favor of the registrar, she said.
Ellerbach added, though, that it would also be difficult for FirstNet to prove
that Nike was negligent. "How is Nike going to police registration of a domain
and keep them from spoofing or fooling NSI?" w

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 Computerworld, Inc.


                             548 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                October 18, 2000

Umbro may sue Reds for tens of millions'

BYLINE: CHRIS BARRY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 434 words



MANCHESTER United could be sued by sportswear manufacturer Umbro over
revelations that the Reds have agreed a record-breaking kit deal with US giant
Nike.  Legal experts believe Umbro have the potential for a substantial claim
for damages against United, running into tens of millions of pounds.

Bosses at Umbro, which recently moved from Wythenshawe to Cheadle, have retained
a dignified silence since news of the Nike deal emerged.  But, privately, they
are furious that it became public knowledge with almost two years remaining on
their deal with the Premier League champions.

Umbro fears that sales of replica United shirts between now and the end of next
season - when its contract expires - will be seriously damaged.  United
confirmed in a short statement to the Stock Exchange late last month that it was
in negotiations with a major sportswear manufacturer'' after the media got wind
of the deal.

An announcement had been expected two weeks ago, when United posted its annual
results, but it is understood Nike were not ready to complete the deal.  Today
Umbro was remaining tight-lipped on its plans.

Head of marketing Martin Prothero said he was unable to confirm or deny'' that
the company, which also supplies the England kit to the Football Association,
had taken legal advice.  We are in constant discussions with Manchester United.
The nature of these discussions are confidential,'' Mr Prothero said.

News of the Nike deal came as a bitter blow to Umbro which has had strong links
with Manchester United over many years.  Reds chief executive Peter Kenyon and
group marketing director Peter Draper both joined the club from Umbro's ranks.

Mr Kenyon was today not immediately available for comment.  Nike, which sponsors
the likes of golf superstar Tiger Woods, seems determined to strike a deal with
Manchester United.

The world's richest soccer club is also arguably the leading global sports
brand.  The reported deal with Nike is expected to be worth a staggering GBP 20m
a year over 15 years.

The previous record sponsorship deal also involved Nike, and was GBP 65m for a
10-year link up with the Brazilian football association.  Sports lawyer Lee
Brierley, a partner at law firm DLA in Manchester said: Normally, these
contracts have a clause in them which prevents the football club from announcing
a new supplier until before the end of the contract.  Umbro will be looking at
their contract and will have to prove that they suffered a loss in sales and
profits.''

Reds' global mission: Page 9


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: United's Peter Kenyon

                     Copyright 2000 Manchester Evening News


                             549 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                               May 7, 2000 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

The colours of money

BYLINE: HOLLY BYRNES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 323 words


THE business of sport is costing football fans a small fortune.

Since multinational sportswear labels Nike, Puma and adidas stitched up
endorsement deals with clubs from all codes, fans have been left to pay a higher
price to dress like their heroes.

Supporters of rugby league, Australian rules, rugby union and soccer can expect
to pay up to $150 for a jersey in their team's colours.

Tony Kaye, owner of the Rugby League Megastore, Darlinghurst, which carries
official merchandise for league, union and AFL, says the price of supporters'
gear has risen in line with the explosion in player payments and American-style
marketing of our

games.

Global brands such as Nike and Reebok have outbid local manufacturers for
exclusive rights to sell official merchandise of the AFL and NRL.

Mr Kaye said: "They are paying big licensing fees and it's out of the reach of
most Australian companies to compete.

"Accordingly, because the money is so big, it's got to come from somewhere and
it's usually the fan who pays."

Sportswear sales assistant Scott Daly said: "While clubs are paying players
$600,000 the league has to make its money somehow."

But Mr Daly, who worked in the buying program of rugby league merchandise for
Grace Bros for two years, said garment quality had risen with the prices.

Parents decking out their children in their favourite team's colours won't get
much change from $100, including a replica kids-size jumper selling for about
$75, shorts $18 and socks $8.

NRL fans have been hit hardest, with prices varying from $129 to $149 depending
on the endorsement deals each club has with a sportswear manufacturer.

NSW and Queensland State of Origin jerseys cost less under a deal struck by the
Australian Rugby League.

While the NRL is believed to take a licensing fee of about 20 per cent from each
official item sold, the ARL takes a smaller fee, keeping prices for adult
jerseys below $100.

RUGBY $100

RULES $95

LEAGUE $139

SOCCER $115

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: JUMPERS FOR JOY: Bronte Klimcke-Misfud (Brumbies), David Feldman
(Swans), Alexandra Popper (Eels) and James Wooley (Northern Spirit). Picture:
DANIELLE SMITH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             550 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                        June 28, 2000, Wednesday, EARLY

Nike has competition covered

BYLINE: David Powell

SECTION: Sports; B5

LENGTH: 413 words

DATELINE: LONDON


LONDON -- An English designer has developed a full-length sprinter's body suit
that could make it harder for British and Canadian athletes to win in the 2000
Olympic Games.

The Swift Suit, which was used for the first time in competition last weekend by
U.S. track star Marion Jones, raises the prospect of a hooded army of runners
marching on the Olympics in Sydney in September.

Eddie Harber, 33, a Londoner with a degree in fashion from East London
University, has been working since 1997 on a suit that its manufacturer, Nike,
claims offers unparalleled benefits by managing muscle temperature and reducing
drag.

The suit, which has been cleared for use by the International Amateur Athletic
Federation, will be available to national teams at the Olympics, but only those
sponsored by Nike. The Canadian and Great Britain teams are sponsored by Adidas.

The U.S. and Australia teams are sponsored by Nike, and, if the suit proves
effective, competitors will find it even harder to beat American Maurice Greene,
the world-record holder in the 100 metres. The world's second-fastest sprint
hurdler behind Britain's Colin Jackson is Allen Johnson, another potential
hooded hero from the U.S., and the favourite in the women's 400 metres is Cathy
Freeman, from Australia.

Jones, the reigning women's world champion in the 100 metres, gave the suit its
first public test in the Prefontaine Classic at Eugene, Oregon.

Warm muscles are essential to sprinting. Nike says the suit manages muscle
temperature by using darker colours on certain body zones to absorb radiant heat
from the sun.

Drag reduction, the manufacturer says, has been achieved by using differently
textured fabrics, the effect of which is said to be similar to that of dimples
on a golf ball.

Why the hoods?

''Hair is a very unaerodynamic surface,'' Harber said. ''We measured and
compared hair styles in the wind tunnel and put hoods over them. There was
nearly a pound more drag with a large wig versus the hood. Shaved heads aren't
bad, but we can engineer textiles that are more aerodynamic than the skin.''

The potential benefit is seen as less than that gained by the controversial
Fastskin suit that many swimmers will wear when the Olympics begin on Sept. 15.
Although the Fastskin suit counts as equipment because it is a performance aid,
the Swift Suit is being regarded as mere apparel. The latter suit will not be on
sale, but has been valued at about $1,800 Cdn.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: P Black & White Photo: John Klicker, The Associated Press / Gina
Dewitt, an 800-metre runner from the United States, demonstrates the Swift Suit
by Nike. The outfit is designed to manage muscle temperatures and reduce wind
drag.

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             552 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 13, 2000, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Protests let air out of Nike ads Sneaker maker hits 'rough patch' as more
consumers voice complaints via e-mail

BYLINE: Michael McCarthy

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 613 words


Just pull it.

That could be Nike's slogan as the sneaker giant pulls controversial
ads to fend off protests.

Nike has always been a controversial marketer. From its edgy ads
to its ambush marketing of the Olympic Games, Nike has cultivated
an image as a bad boy of the marketing world.


But the swoosh has come under attack recently: Nike has yanked
two ads deemed offensive by consumers and is battling a lawsuit
over another.

And the company's recent trials should be a lesson to other marketers
on how consumers can turn the speed of the Web against Corporate
America via e-mail campaigns.

"Consumers are becoming very vocal. Before, they had to go through
channels. Now, the Internet gives accessibility they've never
had before," says consumer trends analyst Tom Julian of Fallon
Worldwide.

"We've certainly hit a rough patch," Nike spokesman Scott Reames
says. "They say bad things come in threes. From a PR standpoint,
we're hoping these are the three." Nike's recent stumbles with
consumers:

* Nike pulled a print ad for Air Dri Goat running shoes
after an uproar that the ad insults people with disabilities.
The parody ad says the shoe prevents runners from slamming into
trees and becoming "a drooling, misshapen, non-extreme-trail-running
husk of my former self, forced to roam the earth in a motorized
wheelchair with my name embossed on one of those cute little license
plates you get at carnivals or state fairs fastened to the back."

Nike posted a public apology on its Web site. "There's nothing
funny about this ad. It should have been stopped," Reames says.

Dan Wieden, head of Nike ad agency Wieden Kennedy, says: "We
have stepped over the line with this advertisement, and there
is no excuse for it. We have hurt a group of people for whom we
have enormous admiration. These are men and women who demonstrate
more courage in a single day than most of us will in our lifetime."

That controversy also showed the Web's power as a protest tool.
Nike went from zero to 172 e-mail complaints in a weekend. "The
explosion of the Internet means people can mobilize quickly,"
Reames says.

* NBC dumped Nike's "chain saw" movie parody, starring
Olympic sprinter Suzy Hamilton, after complaints. Hamilton told
the press in Sydney, Australia: "We didn't want to make people
uncomfortable. We wanted to make people laugh. I'd do the ad again."

* Nike is being sued by singer Billy Paul for using the
song Me and Mrs. Jones in a recent spot starring Olympic
superstar Marion Jones. Paul alleges Nike and Wieden & Kennedy
used it without consent and seeks $ 1 million in damages. Nike
denies the claims.

Some argue Nike has been asking for it with in-your-face ads.
"Nike has been bothering people for a long time. But it's never
reached a point where they had to pull stuff," creative development
expert Michael Markowitz says.

Nike is not alone. Consumers have gone after ads from companies
as diverse as Campbell Soup and FedEx to Taco Bell and Benetton.
The rising tide of consumer beefs could have a chilling effect
on the ad industry.

The result, marketing experts warn, could be "invisible advertising"
-- ads that don't offend but don't grab attention and sell, either.

"It's a doom loop," says Ken Harris of marketing consultants
Cannondale Associates. "Marketers have to try to break through
with risky ads. But consumers have more ways of fighting back
than ever before."

What's next for Nike? "We'll take risks but smarter risks,"
Reames says. "If we see there's a potential for controversy,
we'll ask if it's a controversy we're ready to deal with."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W (2); Nike troubles: Some recent Nike ads, such as a horror
movie parody starring Olympic athlete Suzy Hamilton, left, have irked some
consumers. And singer Billy Paul says the sneaker giant illegally used his song
in an ad featuring runner Marion Jones, below.

                      Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.


                             554 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 13, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

E-Commerce Report;
Web merchants areincorporating audio and video features on their sites to keep
buyers' attention.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1231 words


IN their early incarnations, Internet retailers were chided for spending more
time creating pretty and entertaining sites than actually delivering quality
products, on time, to the right place. Duly chastened, they spent 1999 building
stronger fulfillment and customer service systems.

Now that those systems are mainly in place, many Web merchants are devoting an
increasing amount of time and money to implementing audio and video features --
hoping to provide so entertaining an experience that users will stay glued to
the computer, credit cards at the ready.

These companies are taking advantage of faster connection speeds and better
technologies from audio and video providers to feed users a multimedia
experience that would have choked their computers as recently as a year ago. But
while technology is making it easier for sites to create that experience,
retailers are still grappling with hard questions about how much media to mix
with their commerce.

"There's a very fine line between offering an entertaining interactive
experience and alienating people who aren't as tech savvy or who may not have
the connection speed to make it work well," said Ian Yolles, vice president of
Nike.com. "It's a very delicate balance."

Nike's audio and video efforts have been steadily building since the site's
official rollout last summer. Now Nike.com includes several multimedia programs,
the most notable example being the company's "Cliffhanger" promotion that worked
in conjunction with Nike television ads. The ads showed famous athletes involved
in chase scenes, and directed viewers to a Nike Web site to see various endings
of the scenes.

Mr. Yolles said the campaign was somewhat risky because it required "a certain
amount of technical sophistication" on the part of the users, including the most
up-to-date software for viewing Internet multimedia presentations. "And the
higher the bandwidth, the better the performance," he said.

"But we're interested in the younger consumer," Mr. Yolles said, noting that
those types of consumers are more apt to have both high-speed connections -- as
do most college students -- and the newest software. "So we really hit that
sweet spot."

On the strength of that and other multimedia presentations, Mr. Yolles said
Nike's traffic to the site increased 50 percent in January over the previous
month, "and we expect the same in February." Mr. Yolles declined to cite sales
figures, but said "the risk really paid off for us."

According to Elaine Rubin, an e-commerce consultant and chairwoman of Shop .org,
an industry trade group, "users are going to see a lot more of this type of
thing in the future," as Web sites try to emulate the store environments made
popular by Barnes & Noble and NoodleKidoodle, a toy store "where you take the
kids when there's nothing to do, and oh, by the way, buy four or five things
while you're there."

Ms. Rubin said that on the simplest level, e-commerce sites were starting to
include background music, just as stores do. Barnes & Noble's online store
(www.bn.com), for instance, recently rolled out its "BN Radio" feature, enabling
users to listen to a selection of background music while browsing. Notably, the
feature allows users to continue listening as they surf other sites, since the
audio technology, made by RealNetworks, streams music in the background of the
Web browser's software.

"We also see extending this to other areas," said Daniel Blackman, vice
president of music, video and software for Barnesandnoble.com. "People could
listen to a tax expert give advice while they are looking at tax software."

Since a "buy" button displays the artist or speaker featured in the audio, Mr.
Blackman said, "It not only extends our brand, but it's a fantastic way to
capitalize on the impulse buy."

Such virtues aside, Ms. Rubin said e-commerce sites must approach multimedia
with caution. "Sites that are doing this have been careful, as they ought to be,
to put audio and video in parts of their site where users can choose to use it
or avoid it if they just want to shop," Ms. Rubin said. "Otherwise you'll lose
them."

One site giving users that choice is Victoria's Secret
(www.victoriassecret.com), which analysts say is at least partly responsible for
the growing interest in multimedia entertainment in e-commerce. The company's
online fashion show in February 1999 attracted such a swarm of visitors that
some users were not able to access the site at the time. And even though viewers
were not given the chance to purchase lingerie directly from the fashion show,
traffic to the site remained high for weeks following the Webcast, as did sales.

Ken Weil, vice president of new media for Victoria's Secret, said the company
would hold another online fashion show in May, and planned to let visitors
purchase the clothing being modeled as the show proceeded. Meanwhile, he said,
the site's Glam Lounge currently offers visitors a selection of multimedia
presentations that changes regularly; this month's feature is a
behind-the-scenes video of models during a photo shoot.

Other e-commerce executives note the power of multimedia. Matt Hyde, vice
president of online sales for Recreational Equipment Inc. (www.rei.com),
acknowledged that in recent multimedia tests "most people, when given the
option, chose to look at nonmultimedia." And yet, those who did choose to view
video product presentations bought "significantly more" than those who did not
view the video, he said. "So we're still figuring out how to do it so there's a
real benefit to the customer."

As are many others. Companies like AudioBase, RealNetworks and Yahoo Broadcast
(formerly Broadcast.com), all of which provide Internet multimedia services,
have seen a recent surge in interest from e-commerce companies. AudioBase, which
sells audio services to sites including those of Nickelodeon and Starwood Hotels
and Resorts Worldwide Inc., charges between $750 and $27,500 a month, depending
on the total number of hours of music use.

RealNetworks, which provides multimedia services for Gap and Holland America
Line, charges $3,000 a month to start, with rates increasing "drastically from
there, with more customization," according to a spokeswoman.

Yahoo Broadcast, which conducted the Victoria's Secret fashion show, as well as
a Webcast of a Cranberries concert on Ford Motor's site, charges between $7,500
and $100,000, depending on the extent of production assistance required.

For retailers with their roots in merchandising, not media, expenditures like
that may be difficult to swallow. But according to at least one e-commerce
executive, retailers should prepare themselves for a new online environment.
Chris Edgar, chief operating officer of Delia's Inc. (www.delias.com), a retail
and catalog company geared toward girls and young women, is trying to gauge the
extent to which his company's Web site will include multimedia entertainment in
the future.

"The battle cry of making shopping fun again requires retailers to do it," Mr.
Edgar said. "And we recognize we have to run our merchandizing business like a
media business."

Still, "you have to be careful not to tell consumers the reason they should buy
something is that they can see someone famous on the site," he said. "Successful
marketing of a product still ultimately relies on the quality of the product."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Daniel Blackman, vice president for music, video and software at
Barnesandnoble.com, says that the growth of audio and video features on the
Internet retailer's Web page "not only extends our brand, but it's a fantastic
way to capitalize on the impulse buy." (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             557 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            August 15, 2000 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

Official sponsors `ambushed' by smart marketing;
OLYMPICS 31 DAYS TO GO

BYLINE: Andrew Hornery, Marketing Writer

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 426 words


In advertising circles they call it "ambush marketing" but in the boardrooms of
Qantas and adidas it's all about being smarter.

Much to the annoyance of official sponsors Ansett and Nike, shrewd marketing by
Qantas and adidas has resulted in the average Australian incorrectly naming the
companies as official supporters of the Games.

A survey of 1,000 people living in capital cities conducted in June and July by
Melbourne-based Sweeney Research found that adidas ranked seventh and Qantas
eighth among the top 10 most-recognised Olympic sponsors.

Official sponsor Ansett ranked third and Nike sixth, while Telstra topped the
list ahead of equal second-place getters AMP and McDonald's. Westpac came in
fourth, Coca-Cola fifth, Visa ninth and Channel 7 10th.

"Both Ansett and Qantas are enjoying the benefits of being associated with the
Olympics but only Ansett had to pay the huge sum to be a sponsor," a
Sydney-based sponsorship consultant, Ms Kim Skildum-Reid, said.

"I think a lot of sponsors have missed an opportunity and wasted a lot of money
becoming sponsors. Qantas is always going to kick Ansett's arse because the
company is a natural ambusher. They have the right positioning, being the
Australian airline ... even their tagline, the Spirit of Australia, is in line
with the Games's Share the Spirit."

Qantas, which had sponsored the Olympics for 40 years but ended its association
after the Atlanta Games, has spent the interim signing up high-profile Olympic
athletes, including Cathy Freeman and Ian Thorpe.

In recent weeks, giant billboards featuring the likes of Freeman under the
Qantas logo and Spirit of Australia slogan have been going up around Sydney.

Similarly, adidas has successfully aligned itself with the Games through
sponsorship of Ian Thorpe and the controversial swimsuit that created headlines
earlier in the year.

International Olympic Committee rules prohibit non-sponsors associating
themselves with Olympics and Olympians during the Games. Qantas has assured the
Australian Olympic Committee that its billboards will come down before the
Sydney opening ceremony.

An Ansett spokesman said the airline had met its objectives from its estimated
$50 million Olympic sponsorship, which he claimed did not include public
awareness.

"We've been very successful in using it as an incentive to win and retain major
accounts with many of our larger corporate customers," he said.

"It has also helped boost staff morale significantly. We would have been naive
to think we could wipe 40 years' association Qantas has had with the Olympics."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             558 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          October 25, 2000, Wednesday

REEBOK'S BIG PLAY ; IN TALKS WITH NFL FOR LICENSING DEAL

BYLINE: RICHARD WILNER

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 061

LENGTH: 468 words


Reebok International is in talks with the NFL over a blockbuster apparel rights
deal, The Post has learned.

The talks center on a possible exclusive apparel license for Reebok, including
all authentic game uniforms, sideline apparel and replica jerseys, said people
familiar with the talks.

The NFL sold $1.8 billion worth of licensed apparel last year, industry figures
show. A deal with the mighty NFL can lift Reebok - the No. 3 U.S. sneaker brand,
with $2.9 billion in sales last year - out of a years-long slump.

While the NFL and Reebok refused to comment on any possible ongoing talks,
whispers surrounding the negotiations say the two sides are also swapping
proposals about the NFL getting stock or stock options in Reebok.

"We are currently evaluating all our options as they relate to our consumer
products business," an NFL spokesman told The Post. "We are not going to comment
on specific plans."

Getting equity in a licensee, which would be a first for the NFL, highlights the
league's innovative thinking and team owners' never-ending search for increased
revenues. It also points up the stagnant nature of the licensing business.

The league's current apparel licensing deals - with Nike, Puma and Adidas -
expire at the end of the season. Any Reebok deal will begin with the 2001
season.

Reebok's occupation of the inside track on the NFL deal is the third piece of
evidence that the long-suffering sneaker and apparel company may finally be
ready to climb off the canvas.

The Canton, Mass.-based outfit got some marketing mileage by aligning its brand
with the highly successful CBS program "Survivor." Reebok is also getting high
marks from retailers on its latest sneaker collection.

This has to be good news for Reebok shareholders who have seen their stock drop
80 percent since December 1994. In 1994, Reebok's market share was in the
mid-20s and trailed Nike by just a few percentage points. Today, Reebok owns
just 12 percent of the U.S. sneaker business, while Nike's slice has more than
40 percent.

Ironically, it was Nike's ego that re-opened the NFL licensing door for Reebok.

Nike had hoped to take over the entire NFL licensing game, but its offer to the
NFL was said to be "insultingly low," sources told The Post. Nike believed it
was the only game in town, a person familiar with the talks said.

Instead of rushing at the Nike offer, the NFL pivoted to Reebok. But don't
expect Puma and Adidas to simply roll over. Both companies are still in the
picture, although Reebok is in the driver's seat, people say.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRESS FOR SUCCESS: Jets fans may sport Reebok apparel if a deal with
the NFL goes through. The NFL's $1.8 billion worth of licensed apparel sold last
year would be a huge boon for the No. 3 sneaker brand.  N.Y. Post: Bob Olen

           Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                             560 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              June 30, 2000 Friday

United States

SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS: THE WALL STREET JOURNAL; WHAT'S NEWS; Pg. B9

LENGTH: 121 words


Nike Inc. said its fiscal fourth-quarter profit rose nearly 34 per cent as it
improved gross profit margins and saw a general recovery in its overseas markets
despite some pressure from a strong U.S. dollar. For the period ended May 31,
the sportswear concern reported a final profit of $126-million (U.S.) or 46
cents a diluted share, matching analysts' consensus estimate as tallied by First
Call/Thomson Financial. Revenue grew 4.1 per cent to $2.27-billion. Revenue for
other Nike brands, including its Bauer hockey line and Cole Haan, rose 3 per
cent to $103-million. It released the results after the market closed at 4 p.m.
yesterday, when its shares were up 50 cents at $39.56 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2000 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             561 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                         September 27, 2000, Wednesday

A bodysuit blow to rivals

BYLINE: Michael McGuire

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 561 words


CATHY Freeman's decision to race in full bodysuit was a psychological
masterstroke, her coach Peter Fortune said yesterday, while the suit's maker
will see it as a face-saver and a huge commercial bonus.

Freeman had worn the regulation team-issue two-piece outfit during the opening
three rounds of her 400m, before changing into the Nike bodysuit for the final.

"I though it was a bit of a masterstroke, the suit," Fortune said. "From my
point of view she looked special down there. Everyone else was boom, boom, boom
-- and then there was the phantom in lane six."

It took Nike marketing executives only 15 minutes to begin capitalising on
Freeman's success.

Within three hours of her win, 220 Nike billboards around Sydney had been
changed to reflect Freeman's gold medal performance.

"Cathy Freeman, official sponsor of joy to the Sydney 2000 Olympics," the new
posters declared across a photo of a triumphant Freeman.

Nike national advertising manager Nick Lewis said he had received a call from
billboard company Adshel 15 minutes after the 400m Olympic final informing him
the Freeman posters had been changed over at sites closest to Olympic Park. The
photograph used in the posters was taken months ago in anticipation of Freeman
winning gold.

After rumours of discontent within Nike when star US sprinter Marion Jones chose
not to wear her bodysuit during her 100m final on Saturday night, and the
subsequent drugs scandal over Jones's husband CJ Hunter, Freeman's victory
brought the sportswear company much-needed kudos.

Nike has spent tens of millions of dollars and many years developing the suit,
so to have it left in the locker room at the main event would have been an
embarrassment. It has so far failed to win over the athletic community in the
way the neck-to-ankle equivalent in swimming has, although Nike will be counting
on the Freeman endorsement to change perceptions.

"I actually believe in the product," Freeman said yesterday. "I actually believe
in the Nike Swiftsuit. I just thought it would be an advantage to my
performance."

The suit is designed to give the runner an aerodynamic edge.

It is made up of five different fabrics, which are designed for different parts
of the body, which move at different speeds during a race.

Freeman first used it in race conditions in appalling weather at the August
meeting in Gateshead and was reportedly pleased with the feel and performance.

Nike spokeswoman Kathryn Reith said yesterday Freeman's decision to wear the
suit was her own. Reith also said Nike expected the suit to become regular
running equipment in the future, but that it needed a pioneer to show how it
worked. She denied that Freeman had been offered any financial inducement to
wear the suit on Monday night.

Nike was not the only sponsor delighted with Freeman breaking convention. Qantas
would have been delighted with Freeman's subliminal plug for the airline at a
press conference on Monday night.

"All I know is that I've made a lot of people happy from all kinds of
backgrounds who call Australia home and I'm happy."

It's a variation on the I Still Call Australia Home theme, which Qantas has used
for years in its television commercials and one that has obviously sunk into the
Freeman psyche.

Freeman is expected to don the suit again during the 200m, which starts today.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             562 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                         September 27, 2000, Wednesday

A bodysuit blow to rivals

BYLINE: Michael McGuire

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 561 words


CATHY Freeman's decision to race in full bodysuit was a psychological
masterstroke, her coach Peter Fortune said yesterday, while the suit's maker
will see it as a face-saver and a huge commercial bonus.

Freeman had worn the regulation team-issue two-piece outfit during the opening
three rounds of her 400m, before changing into the Nike bodysuit for the final.

"I though it was a bit of a masterstroke, the suit," Fortune said. "From my
point of view she looked special down there. Everyone else was boom, boom, boom
-- and then there was the phantom in lane six."

It took Nike marketing executives only 15 minutes to begin capitalising on
Freeman's success.

Within three hours of her win, 220 Nike billboards around Sydney had been
changed to reflect Freeman's gold medal performance.

"Cathy Freeman, official sponsor of joy to the Sydney 2000 Olympics," the new
posters declared across a photo of a triumphant Freeman.

Nike national advertising manager Nick Lewis said he had received a call from
billboard company Adshel 15 minutes after the 400m Olympic final informing him
the Freeman posters had been changed over at sites closest to Olympic Park. The
photograph used in the posters was taken months ago in anticipation of Freeman
winning gold.

After rumours of discontent within Nike when star US sprinter Marion Jones chose
not to wear her bodysuit during her 100m final on Saturday night, and the
subsequent drugs scandal over Jones's husband CJ Hunter, Freeman's victory
brought the sportswear company much-needed kudos.

Nike has spent tens of millions of dollars and many years developing the suit,
so to have it left in the locker room at the main event would have been an
embarrassment. It has so far failed to win over the athletic community in the
way the neck-to-ankle equivalent in swimming has, although Nike will be counting
on the Freeman endorsement to change perceptions.

"I actually believe in the product," Freeman said yesterday. "I actually believe
in the Nike Swiftsuit. I just thought it would be an advantage to my
performance."

The suit is designed to give the runner an aerodynamic edge.

It is made up of five different fabrics, which are designed for different parts
of the body, which move at different speeds during a race.

Freeman first used it in race conditions in appalling weather at the August
meeting in Gateshead and was reportedly pleased with the feel and performance.

Nike spokeswoman Kathryn Reith said yesterday Freeman's decision to wear the
suit was her own. Reith also said Nike expected the suit to become regular
running equipment in the future, but that it needed a pioneer to show how it
worked. She denied that Freeman had been offered any financial inducement to
wear the suit on Monday night.

Nike was not the only sponsor delighted with Freeman breaking convention. Qantas
would have been delighted with Freeman's subliminal plug for the airline at a
press conference on Monday night.

"All I know is that I've made a lot of people happy from all kinds of
backgrounds who call Australia home and I'm happy."

It's a variation on the I Still Call Australia Home theme, which Qantas has used
for years in its television commercials and one that has obviously sunk into the
Freeman psyche.

Freeman is expected to don the suit again during the 200m, which starts today.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             563 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Post

                          February 10, 2000, Thursday

THE COMEBACK KITTY; PUMA'S CLAWING ITS WAY UP AS NIKE SLIPS

BYLINE: EVELYN NUSSENBAUM

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 038

LENGTH: 503 words


While Nike stock plunged for a second day on earnings worries, smaller rival
Puma went the other way -- it jumped 7 percent, after the German athletic wear
maker said 1999 earnings more than doubled.

Puma shares closed at $15.88, up 50 cents.

Puma also said its order backlog, an indicator of future sales, soared 40
percent.

Puma appears to be shaking off the prolonged slump that is gripping most of the
athletic wear industry.

Its stock soared 49 percent last year; it opened a flagship store in Los
Angeles, and the company is considering another one in New York City, and
analysts say more retailers are adding its products all the time.

The company has plenty of buzz, too, thanks to the recent launch of Christy
Turlington's yoga wear line and the red-hot career of Puma spokesperson Serena
Williams. Boxer Oscar De La Hoya is also an endorser of Puma.

Why does Puma look so hot when Nike appears to be cooling?

Buzz is part of it.

Analysts say teenagers, who buy most of the athletic shoes and apparel, see
Puma's clothing as more of a fashion statement than something to play basketball
in.

"There's not a lot of new technology right now, so fashion has become even more
important," said retail consultant Alison Boswell. "And right now kids are drawn
to these kind of cleaner retro looks."

Boswell says Puma has also been persuading increasing numbers of athletic
chains, specialty and department stores to carry its products in the last year.

But Puma is also benefiting in comparison to Nike because of its relatively low
market share and its status as a comeback kid.

Just two years ago, Puma was struggling itself and had virtually disappeared
from the U.S. market.

And all of its growth has bought it just about 1 percent of the U.S. market for
athletic wear -- so there is plenty of room for increases.

Nike, by contrast, has 43 percent of the market here, and analysts say it could
be close to saturation.

Meanwhile, Nike lost another $3.25 to $33.75 yesterday, bringing its two day
loss to $10.75.

Tuesday's $7.50 loss was its biggest one-day drop in 17 years.

Nike shocked investors when it said 1999 earnings would fall short of Wall
Street's expectations.

The Oregon-based company blamed store closings at the Foot Locker chain and the
bankruptcy of Just for Feet for its troubles.

A slew of analyst downgrades followed.

But there are still some faithful, who point out that Nike is still growing --
and they expect profit growth in the mid-teens for 2,000.

Early word on Nike's fall fashions is good, and its women's fashions, which are
about 20 percent of its business and growing, are selling well.

John Shanley of First Security Van Kasper is one of the believers. He raised his
rating on the stock and gave it a 12 month price target of $60.


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: SLINKY: Supermodel Christy Turlington's line of yoga-inspired
activewear is helping Puma gain ground.  JOHN BARRETT
OSCAR DE LA HOYA Endorses Puma. Aubrey Reuben

SERENA WILLIAMS On board.

           Copyright 2000 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.


                             565 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            January 9, 2000, Sunday

Toxin found in Nike football shirts

BYLINE: Edward Simpkins

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 312 words


THE sporting goods manufacturer Nike admitted last night that football shirts
and replica kits worn by thousands of children in Britain contain a toxin
identified in German soccer shirts. But the company, which has launched urgent
tests of all its sports shirts, denied there was any danger to the public.

Laboratory tests carried out by a German television channel this week found that
shirts worn by the football team Borussia Dortmund, manufactured by Nike in
Britain, contained trace levels of TBT.

Three German department store chains have withdrawn the yellow and black shirts.

In industrial use TBT is used on the underside of ships' hulls to keep them
clean. It is also an anti-bacterial and anti-fungal agent used in some textiles.
High levels of exposure can cause neurological problems, damage the immune
system, cause breathing difficulties, skin irritation and birth defects.

Nike last night said it had carried out its own tests, which confirmed low
levels of TBT were present, but in such low levels as to pose no health risk.

The company said: "We are treating this really seriously, but the levels are so
low there is no cause for concern." It was puzzled how TBT came to be in the
shirts, as it was not used at any stage in production.

Nike, which produces shirts for Arsenal and Glasgow Rangers, has contacted the
clubs to reassure them there is no danger.

British and Dutch marine biologists have shown that TBT can cause mutations in
marine snails, and there have been calls for its global ban.

However, Professor Michael Braungart of the Environmental Protection
Encouragement Agency, based in Hamburg, said: "At no time has there been any
risk from wearing a Nike shirt. In seafood, for instance in clams from the North
Sea, the contamination of TBT is up to 10 to 20 times higher than in the sports
shirt."


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited


                             566 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      San Ramon Valley Times (California)

                      October 9, 2000 Monday FINAL EDITION

LETTERS FROM OUR READERS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 1150 words


Olympics 'horror' ad repulsive

As a parent, grandparent and community pediatrician, I am very sensitive to
violence-loaded programming that is shamelessly doled out to us and our
children.

In the midst of enjoying the opening ceremonies of the Sydney Olympics, I was
shocked and then repulsed by the "horror" commercial promoting the Nike Corp.
This comes just at a time when media violence is again being studied by
Congress. NBC and ESPN deserve credit for withdrawing the commercial.

Nike Inc. is a corporate giant, a major Olympic sponsor. Nike advertisements
have been recognized with Clio awards and even an Emmy. We know their commercial
messages can be more creative. Yet Nike chose to present a horror style film
clip against the backdrop of the Olympics our modern day attempt to promote
global peace and unity and harmony.

It did this to millions of viewers. How many of those viewers are impressionable
young men? How many young women were unnerved seeing the "horror" commercial?
Surely the corporate leaders of Nike can wield their influence in a more
constructive and influential manner. Public concern about violence in the media
is not a coincidence.

This violent commercial detracts from Nike's promotions for a healthy life
style. Marketing and advertising boost name recognition. We all recognize the
Nike swoosh. But with ads like "horror," the swoosh may now repel
conscience-minded consumers.

Thomas F. Long, M.D.

San Ramon

Ad empowers women

I completely disagree with the column Ellen Goodman wrote Sept. 26 regarding the
Nike advertisement titled "Horror." I thought the ad was great.

It was so nice to see a woman empowering herself for a change. How many movies,
books and magazines are out there that depict women as victims? A lot! The
mistake Nike made was broadcasting the advertisement in prime time, when
children are awake. They should have broadcast it later in the evening.

I believe that being strong and in condition saved my life not once, but twice.
I lived in Pleasanton in the early '90s, and was attacked on two different
occasions in broad daylight. Both times the saving grace was my ability to fight
off my attacker, and then outrun him. The unfortunate truth is that there are
sick people in the world, and those people take advantage of the weak, and
victimize them.

Nike created a strong woman who fended off her attacker. She refused to be a
victim, and she won. I found myself at first very upset by the ad, but as it
went along I was cheering that the runner got away. I explained the ad to my
children, as any parent should have done. Even my children understood the
concept "Why run? It could save your life."

Becoming a victim can happen to anyone no matter where you live. Nike sent a
very strong message in that commercial, and I hope it empowers more women and
children to fight back.

Phyllis Combs

San Ramon

Broken heart

"Dismayed" doesn't describe this horsewoman's feelings. "Heart-broken" does.

Your article "Horsemen Dismayed Over Demolished Arena" (San Ramon Valley Times,
September 28) missed a key point. While the site of the former Double D arena is
currently the battleground between the Danville Junior Horsemen and the Humphrey
family over who has ownership rights, the demolition of the arena is not just
about court documents and dueling attorneys as your article described. At least,
not to this horsewoman.

Before it was reduced to a pile of dirt, the arena was a small sanctuary for
generations of adolescent horse lovers, including me. While I attended Los
Cerros and later Monte Vista, the arena was where I learned those lessons I
never learned in school discipline, sportsmanship and leadership.

It was more than a place to ride. It was about membership in the Danville Junior
Horsemen organization, where kids and adults met regularly and planned events
through group leadership. It was at that arena and in this club setting that I
found true friendship and confidence, at an age when I needed it the most.

I am dismayed that the current dispute continues. But, when I drove past that
freshly bulldozed patch of land on Stone Valley and remembered all the rewarding
experiences my fellow horsemen and I shared there, it just broke my heart.

Nicole Kohleriter

Alamo

Ecstasy denial

In Willy Reid's letter regarding the dangers of the drug Ecstasy he asks for,
"Drug Enforcement Agencies and other law enforcement agencies as well as the
American Medical Association to just come out and tell the public exactly what
the popular drug Ecstasy really is."

On Wednesday from 7-9 p.m. at Charlotte Wood Middle School in Danville, several
of our local agencies will do just that. A student whose life has been touched
by the drug will be part of this powerful presentation.

The Ecstasy presentation is one of several workshops which are part of the
2000-01 parent education series.

The series is sponsored by the Del Valle Council of PTAs, Communities Against
Substance Abuse (CASA) and the San Ramon Valley Unified School District's Safe
and Drug Free Schools and Communities Committee.

The series helps to meet three goals set by the San Ramon Valley Advisory
Committee for youth safety and development with regard to parent education:

*Promote community awareness regarding youth issues;

*Develop and implement comprehensive, consistent procedures to address
prevention and identification of at risk behaviors;

*Develop family support services to address issues facing youths.

The challenge put before parents and community members is to help break the
"valley of denial" label given to our community by attending this important
presentation.

Carroll Dressler

Danville

Dressler is the parent education representative for the Del Valle Council of
PTAs.

Gore fights for Al

Recently, Vice President Gore has promised to "fight for the people." But I
think Gore will fight only for Al.

Gore's Gulf War vote provides a troublesome example. Legislators from both
parties weighed their vote seriously, hesitant to send hundreds of thousands of
American children to war.

The night before this monumental debate, however, Gore went to the GOP leader,
Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas, and asked "How much time on the debate floor will you
give me if I support the president's decision to go to war?" Democrats opposing
the war only offered Gore seven minutes, so Gore bargained for more: "Damn it,
if I don't get 20 minutes tomorrow, I'm going to vote the other way."

Gore attended the vote with alternative speeches, waiting to see who would offer
the most speaking time. Gore got it from the pro-war side, and read the pro-war
speech.

If Gore puts personal politics over the people's interest on this most important
issue, how can we trust him to fight for us on any other issue. He hasn't for
the last eight years. I doubt he ever will.

Doris Singer

San Ramon

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 Contra Costa Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             568 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                          Sunday Tasmanian (Australia)

                            November 5, 2000, Sunday

United in $827m deal with Nike

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 109 words


MANCHESTER United, the world's richest soccer club, said yesterday it had signed
a sponsorship and merchandising deal with sports gear giant Nike worth $827.03
million.

United, which has won the English league title six times in the last eight years
and was European champion in 1999, said it would grant exclusive rights to
sponsor its gear, manufacture and sell its merchandise and operate Manchester
United's existing retail operations.

The agreement starts on August 1, 2002, when the club's current sponsorship
contract with Umbro expires and will run for 13 years, although Nike will have
the option to end the arrangements in 2008.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: STS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             570 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 28, 2000, Thursday

Nike deal confirms United's worldwide appeal

BYLINE: Oliver Kay and George Caulkin

SECTION: Sport

LENGTH: 402 words


MANCHESTER UNITED will confirm their status as the most marketable football club
on the planet on Monday by announcing an alliance with Nike, the American
sportswear company, which will bring in the staggering sum of Pounds 300 million
over a 15-year period.

The deal, which will come into effect at the start of the 2002-03 season, will
earn United Pounds 20 million a season, a figure three times higher than the
existing record, which is held by the Brazil national team.

Brazil accepted a sum of $ 100 million over a ten-year period, which works out
at roughly Pounds 6.7million a year, from Nike in exchange for the contracts for
all their kits at every representative level, including that of the women's
team.

That record is not so much eclipsed as dwarfed by United's latest deal, which,
while good news for the club's shareholders, is bad news for Umbro, the
Manchester-based company who have made United's kits for the past eight years.
Its determination to hold on to the contract was no match for the financial
muscle of Nike.

Meanwhile, David Beckham, United's midfield player, who has been touted as a
future England captain, has denied charges that he spat at Markus Merk, the
German referee, during PSV Eindhoven's 3-1 victory on Tuesday evening.

"I did not spit at the referee at all. Things happen, you react and get
headlines for it, but sometimes it looks worse than it is," Beckham said last
night. He did admit, however, that the issue of his temperament remains
unresolved.

"I did have an argument with Gary Neville on the pitch and I shouldn't have," he
said, "but it was a frustrating night. A lot of people have opinions about my
temperament, but it's part of my game and it's helped me get to where I am."

Beckham aside, the aftermath of United's abject performance in the Philips
Stadium was dominated by the extent of Sir Alex Ferguson's squad rotation. "When
we saw that Beckham and Giggs were not on the team sheet, we couldn't believe
it," Arnold Bruggink, the PSV forward, said. "You can't take Beckham and Giggs
out of the team and play the same way.

"It made us all the more motivated because we thought 'why should Manchester
United believe they can beat us with a weak side?' You could see that from the
way we played. There's no reason why we can't go to Old Trafford next month, put
on the same performance there and get a good result'.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited


                             571 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 7, 2000

The GBP 6m shoelace;
Jogger sues Nike for a fortune after tripping over her trainers

BYLINE: Ivor Key

SECTION: Pg. 45

LENGTH: 453 words


A JOGGER is suing Nike for GBP 6million after tripping over a shoelace on her
trainers.

Orthopaedic surgeon Deborah Faryniarz says she suffered serious and permanent
injuries to her wrist when she fell while running.

As a result she now has to have help while performing operations, including
getting others to twist screws into bones.

Dr Faryniarz, from New York, said in documents filed in Manhattan District Court
that she was wearing Nike's GBP 62 a pair Certitude Cross-trainers when her
right lace hooked around the back tab of the left shoe.

She was pregnant at the time and fell, hurting her right wrist just days before
she was due to begin performing wrist surgeries as part of her hospital
residency.

'She ended up with her supervising professor also treating her,' said her
lawyer, James Kreindler. He added that her child, her first, was born healthy
despite the fall.

Since the injury, he said Dr Faryniarz had managed to continue to perform
operations but only with aid from other doctors and nurses.

She alleges Nike was negligent for carelessly designing, manufacturing,
assembling, inspecting, testing and distributing the trainers.

Mr Kreindler added that the crux of the lawsuit was that Nike knew their product
was hazardous, but failed to fix the flaws.

The lawsuit alleges that the fall was caused by a leather tab which rises about
an inch and a half from the back of the shoe and is used to pull it on to the
foot. Mr Kreindler said that on the shoe in question the tab was larger and more
rigid than on other designs, making it easier for the shoelace to catch on it.

He said the style had only been on the market a few months, but he alleges Nike
had received several complaints about the design and should have made changes.

He added: 'Just as important, they should have warned consumers about the defect
months before my client was sent sprawling. Because they didn't, Miss Faryniarz
has suffered permanent physical disfigurement and disabilities with far reaching
effects on all aspects of her personal and professional life as well as great
pain, suffering and mental anguish.' The lawyer said: 'She's still trying to be
a surgeon but is uncertain what her future will be.' Mr Kreindler described his
client as a serious competitive runner in her spare time. He claimed that made
it unlikely she would be careless with her footwear when she ran regularly
through the streets and parks of Manhattan.

Cheryl McCants, a spokesman for Nike in Beaverton, Oregon, said the company was
not ready to comment.

Nike is the world's leading maker of athletic shoes with revenues of more than
GBP 5billion last year and profits of GBP 330million.


LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             572 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                    February 25, 2000 Friday Final C Edition

Bait and switch move

SOURCE: The Province

BYLINE: Lowell Ullrich

SECTION: Sports; Sports on TV; Pg. A51

LENGTH: 1080 words

Parents who try and get their kids to watch less sports on TV might have noticed
their task has become easier lately.

Do not, however, claim victory, because the alternative can be like being forced
to watch Marty McSorley's woodchopping act every time it's been replayed this
week.

We're talking about a series of ads run by Nike, shoe giant and kings of
in-your-face messaging, that encourage viewers to make the ground-breaking
switch away from the tube and head for the Internet at whatever.nike.com.

The TV ads start with three scenarios, including one in which the viewer is made
to think a giant snowball is about to roll on them. That's tame compared to the
endings, where you get to pick your fate.

Flip to the Web site and you can turn yourself into an insect and be squashed by
U.S. Olympian Marion Jones, get thrown overboard off a cruise ship by Mark
McGwire, be hacked up by a flying chainsaw or have Terrell Davis either throw
switchblades at you or hit golf balls off your nose.

Charming, indeed.

If you're not totally grossed out at this point, you can click on an icon to buy
their latest shoe. The shock spots note you can use Nike products to run, play
basketball, get trampled ... whatever.

If this is the type of stuff that made you swear off TV years ago, it's just
found another home.

"There was an Internet feeding frenzy three or four years ago, but advertisers
weren't promoting their Web sites. Now advertisers are seeing how they can
direct traffic into their own hands," said longtime Vancouver media analyst
David Stanger.

Is TV sports in trouble if high-profile advertisers are switching to the
Internet?

"Just the opposite," said Stanger. "TV people are rubbing their hands with glee
knowing they can show advertisers how powerful they can be directing consumers."

"Taking people away from television was not our primary goal," said Nike Canada
advertising manager Josie Seguin. "It just happened that way."

It's great cross-branding, of course, and nobody does it better than the company
that made paranormal athletes out of Tiger Woods, Michael Jordan, et al.

It all would be pretty laughable, which is the reaction Nike wanted in the first
place, unless you consider it wasn't that long ago that the company considered
forming its own TV network.

The wave of sports TV on the Internet is about to crest and companies like Nike
may simply be further ahead than many are willing to admit.

THE BUZZ

What's news on the airwaves:

GLOBAL DOMINANCE? It wasn't a day after the proposed purchase of BCTV by Global
when talk of a possible switch of Sports Page to WIC's current Burnaby compound
began making the rounds.

Most likely suitors for CKVU is CHUM Ltd., which operates CITY in Toronto, and
Craig Broadcasting's A-Channel of Edmonton, neither of which have a particularly
strong sports presence.

"To say we're not concerned about it would be a lie, but there hasn't been a lot
of talk about it," said Sports Pager Barry Macdonald.

Keeping a proven Sports Page would make sense. So would moving BCTV's late news
to 11 p.m. But not every Sports Page host has a contract that lasts past the
planned switchover next fall. Said a hopeful Squire Barnes at BCTV: "It'd be
great if they popped more money into sports."

30-SECOND CLIPS: CTV Sportsnet programming vice-president Scott Moore was up at
4 a.m. Toronto time Tuesday e-mailing congratulations to staffers for two solid
reporting jobs. The upstarts first broke Web site stories on the possibility of
CFL U.S. expansion plans. CTVSN also had a big jump on Marty McSorley-Donald
Brashear, with footage by VTV's Jason Lee from the guilty party, but were
pounded by TSN on the suspension announcement. ... The NFL Today got better
Thursday when CBS hired Mike Ditka. "I don't want to be over-analytical and I
don't want to be boring," said Ditka, who is neither. What of fellow ex-coach
Jerry Glanville? Said CBS Sports president Sean McManus: "Jerry will have his
seat, seeing as he took it with him off the stage last season."... Hockey Day in
Canada was an unqualified success Saturday: One suggestion: Why not let Don
Cherry take phone calls from viewers more often?

FIVE WORTH WATCHING

The best in TV this week:

HOCKEY: Canucks-Kings, today, 7 p.m., VTV. Like Don Cherry said, where was this
team the last two months?

CURLING: Canadian women's final, Sunday, 10:30 a.m., CBC. Sandra Schmirler's
illness has forced two networks to change plans. TSN's Dave Hodge was to
interview the cancer-stricken curler on his special (Saturday, 7 p.m.) With
Newsworld weather person Colleen Jones free this weekend, don't be surprised if
she stands in for Schmirler as an analyst Sunday.

GOLF: World Match Play final, Sunday, 11 a.m., TSN, KOMO. Already, this year's
final will be better than Andrew Magee-Jeff Maggert.

SOCCER: Gold Cup final, Sunday, CTVSN. This one comes with options, depending on
Canada's late Thursday game. If Canada's in the final, Sportsnet will go live at
noon. A loss and it's on tape at 7 p.m.

BASKETBALL: Grizzlies-Lakers, Wednesday, 7:30 p.m., CTVSN. "Is there a better
two-guard in the NBA now than Michael Dickerson?" asks Sportsnet's Tom Glasgow.
If so, he gets a good test tonight against Kobe Bryant.

SHORT STUFF

TIP SHEET: Sportsnet had good, behind-the-scenes Grizzlies footage this week,
although with the access they get holding broadcast rights granted by Orca Bay,
it's a wonder they didn't do it a lot earlier. Equally revealing was a piece
with Michael Heisley outlining his first moves when he becomes owner. ... Sports
Journal's piece on abused ex-Blue Jays outfielder Rob Butler on CBC was a
revealing look at the secret he held for 15 years. ... CBC's Bruce Baker had a

good local piece on the B.C.

Hockey College. ... CTVSN drew

203,000 viewers for Canucks-Bruins Monday.

QUOTE RACK

Memorable lines from the week:

- John Shorthouse on CKNW, with the first words on Marty McSorley, and the most
definitive: "That is the worst thing I've ever seen."

- Don Taylor of Sports Page, same topic, first to raise an ugly possibility
through good tape-editing work: "That looks like a spitting motion (at Donald
Brashear) to me."

- Perry Solkowski of VTV on a Canucks-Bruins setup, giving Dan Murphy a ribbing
but forgetting his female viewers: "The problem with the Bruins, Dan, is
something you don't relate to ... they have problems scoring."

E-mail: lullrich@pacpress.sout-ham.ca.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nike; A Nike commercial with Mark McGwire starts out tamely on
television, but has some gruesome endings at company's Web site.

TYPE: Sports; Column

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             574 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    September 26, 2000 Tuesday CITY EDITION

JOHNSON WINS GOLD WEARING 3M GOLD

BYLINE: Aron Kahn Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 284 words


Not all that glitters is gold, but in the case of Michael Johnson's track shoes,
3M Co. made certain they were.

Johnson, the American sprinter who won the 400 meters at the Olympic Games in
Sydney, accomplished the feat in shoes made of 24-carat gold.

Johnson wore gold-colored shoes four years ago at the games Atlanta, but his
cobblers at Nike called 3M afterward to see if it could make a material that
looks more like real gold.

3M, a large producer of reflective material for shoes and clothing, said it
thought it could make the material literally from gold if Nike didn't mind the
material also being reflective. After all, a bit of promotion in front of a
world-wide audience doesn't hurt. 3M's personal safety products are part of a
unit that generated $3.23 billion in sales last year, 21 percent of the
Maplewood-based company's $15.66 billion total.

Nike was delighted, said Claud Lacey, director of 3M Personal Safety Products,
so a bunch of scientists in a company lab in St. Paul ordered one small bar of
gold and went to work.

The eventual result was 45 pairs of gold shoes - 20 for Johnson, 24 for Nike's
promotional purposes, and one pair - signed by Johnson - for 3M.

"We'll take them around to trade shows to demonstrate the need for reflective
gear for outdoor visibility," Lacey said.

In case you were wondering, the answer is no. The gold shoes didn't weigh
Johnson down. 3M made the material with a "vapor coating" of 24 carat gold, "so
it doesn't add substantially to the weight," Lacey said.

"It's measured in microns."

Aron Kahn, who covers the business of sports and entertainment, can be reached
at akahn@pioneerpress.com or (651) 228-5569.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Thanks to 3M Co., Michael Johnson displayed the golden touch at the
Olympic games in Sydney.

                     Copyright 2000 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                             575 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                            October 30, 2000, Monday

Disabled ad: Nike has just done it this time

BYLINE: Benjamin Haslem

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 361 words


A NIKE advertisement describing disabled people as drooling, misshapen husks
roaming the earth in motorised wheelchairs has sparked international outrage.

The clothing giant, which outfitted Australia's Paralympic team, apologised for
the advertisement, which appeared in several US outdoor magazines available in
Australia.

The advertisement says: "You're probably asking yourself, 'How can a trail
running shoe ... help me avoid compressing my spinal cord into a Slinky on the
side of some unsuspecting conifer, thereby rendering me a drooling, misshapen
... husk of my former self, forced to roam the earth in a motorised wheelchair
with my name embossed on one of those cute little licence plates you get at
carnivals?'."

Australian disability groups yesterday labelled the advertisement vicious and
joined US counterparts in demanding compensation -- a donation for spinal injury
research.

"We offer a sincere apology," Nike said in a statement issued after its website
was bombarded with complaints from around the world. "Clearly, disabilities of
any form are no laughing matter and that paragraph should not have been included
in the ad. We are immediately pulling this offensive ad from future
publication."

The company's statement mentioned it outfitted the 2000 Australian Paralympic
team and former Nike president Bob Woodell uses a wheelchair after injuring his
spinal cord.

A spokesman for the Australian Paralympic team last night said officials had not
seen the advertisement and were unwilling to comment.

Physical Disability Council of NSW president John Moxon said yesterday the
advertisement denigrated accident victims who used wheelchairs.

"People with spinal-cord injuries don't end up dribbling. They don't end up
silly," said Mr Moxon, who is in a wheelchair as the result of a car-racing
accident.

"We've got a big sense of humour and tend to laugh at ourselves a lot, but that
ad was not funny. It was just vicious."

Marcie Roth, director of advocacy and public policy at the US National Council
of Independent Living, has demanded Nike make a sizeable donation to the
National Spinal Cord Injury Association.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             579 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           September 29, 2000, Friday

Hey, Mambo, let's try a US two-step - Owners and Nike discuss alliance

BYLINE: Ben English

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 481 words


MAMBO is negotiating with footware giant Nike to form a distribution alliance in
the US.

The anti-establishment leisurewear icon, bought out by Gazal Corp last March,
has held talks with Nike executives visiting Sydney for the Games, The Daily
Telegraph has learned.

Gazal boss Michael Gazal yesterday said a Nike alliance was being considered as
a means to break into the tough US retail market.

"We had one of the Nike guys ring up and ask about it," he said. "It was one of
the Nike guys out here for the Olympics.

" He visited one of the stores."

Mr Gazal ruled out any sale of Gazal's marketing rights to Mambo in the US.
Instead, the two are pursuing a joint venture.

"They could be a good distribution partner," he added.

"Nike would have to be one of the giant trademarks.

"Obviously, getting into bed with someone like Nike we will have to weigh up all
the issues carefully."

But Mr Gazal said he was also considering establishing Mambo in America using
internal resources.

"Down the track, we may decide we may want to have our own business in the US.
We might send someone from Australia to live there and do it ourselves.

"Another option is a joint venture with someone like Nike but there are a number
of different ways we could do it."

Mr Gazal is compiling a masterplan to develop a global distribution for Mambo,
beginning in the UK and Europe before taking on the US.

And a stock exchange listing may be in the pipeline.

"A float is possible," he said.

"Depending on what shape the business takes over the next couple of years and
what sort of funding is required to be able to achieve the sort of growth that
the brand needs, we could float.

"Nothing is imminent, it's probably three to five years away."

Mr Gazal said the Mambo purchase in March had transformed Gazal from a brand
renter to a global brand owner.

"It's a lot different from being an Australian licensee," he said.

"We are really focusing on the Australian operation, the European operation and
getting our international sourcing structure ready to supply world markets.

"It's an exciting time for us. We just have to make sure we have the right
business plan and execute it properly."

Gazal paid Mambo creator Dare Jennings and his partner Andrew Rich $8.7 million
worth of Gazal shares, making them the largest shareholders outside the Gazal
family with an 8 per cent stake.

Mr Jennings remains Mambo's creative director and has joined the Gazal board.

How they compare

* Mambo -- with its flatulent dog imagery -- has global sales of $55 million.

  * Nike had US revenues of $A8.61 billion in 1999-2000 against $8.65 billion
and $US10.37 billion in the previous two years.

  * Nike's revenue breakdown for the latest year was: $6.09 billion (footwear),
$2.09 billion (apparel) and $407 million (equipment).

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             582 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 27, 2000, Sunday

NIKE PLAYS TO THE WOMEN'S GAME

BYLINE: Adam Lucas

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 523 words


NIKE, the global sportswear giant, is to create a new unit specifically designed
for the women's market. Its move comes as companies finally start to realise
that female consumers are interested in a great deal more than make-up and
cleaning products.

The new division will be spearheaded by Clare Hamill, appointed vice president
of women's business by Nike chairman and chief executive Philip H Knight. Mr
Knight this week praised Ms Hamill: "Nike's women's business is one of our major
growth accelerators in the US, and ... such a critical initiative requires a
strong and visionary leader, which is exactly what we have in Clare."

Nike currently sells only 20 per cent of its $ 7.5bn annual turnover to women.
However, it is the leading sportswear brand for women and has seen an
opportunity to capitalise on the rapidly increasing interest in women's sports
and fitness in the US.

The success of the American women's national soccer team, which won the World
Cup in 1999 and the Olympic title at Atlanta in 1996, and then the introduction
of the Women's National Basketball League, has attracted huge media coverage
across the pond. Increasing interest in women's sport, prompted by these
achievements, has sparked a surge in demand for women's sports clothing and
footwear.

However, the products will not only be designed for "active" sportswomen. Corby
Casler, communications director at Nike's headquarters in Oregon, revealed that
its women's products aim to "expand beyond the 'core athletics' and reach active
women who do not necessarily consider themselves an 'athlete'."

She added: "The business model we will follow is to build upon the way women
think. They want to be fit in a way that fits their lifestyle, and that may mean
comfortable, performance clothes all day long."

This approach will be mirrored in the way Nike plans to promote these products.
Certainly, it will use its selection of top athletes such as Marion Jones, the
popular US sprinter, to gain the required attention, though it hopes to shed a
slightly different light upon them.

"You will be seeing us signing on more high profile women athletes and expanding
the visibility of our current athletes," explained Ms Casler. "Our marketing
will help consumers better understand these athletes as people who have lives
beyond the professions in which they compete."

Nike's soccer duo, Mia Hamm and Brandi Chastain, are sure to be at the forefront
of this campaign. Ms Hamm was the star of the national side, leading it to
victory in the women's world cup in 1999. However, she was eclipsed in the end
by Ms Chastain who scored the penalty to seal the win and hit the headlines by
tearing off her shirt in the victory celebrations.

Nike has historically benefited from close links with top sporting figures, such
as Michael Jordan, Ronaldo and Michael Johnson. However, it has recently run
into trouble with its deal to sponsor golf sensation Tiger Woods. After
persuading Mr Woods to swap his Titelist golf balls for Nike, it was discovered
that the Nike balls he used were not the ones on sale to the general public.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A winning side: Mia Hamm will be at the forefront of Nike's campaign
REUTERS; Dressing down: Brandi Chastain may have to keep her clothes on for Nike
REUTERS

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd


                             583 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                               November 25, 2000

Look cool and trendy while sweating it out

BYLINE: By Karen Yap

SECTION: Consider this!; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 620 words


IN our increasingly health-conscious society, many are turning to all
types of exercise. Besides the usual jogging, walking, swimming, lifting
weights, building and toning of muscles in the gym, exercises like tai
chi, kickboxing, yoga, skating and hiking are gaining popularity.

Despite all the huffing and puffing, the vain side of us wants to look
great while sweating it out. We usually don't want to wear the same old
sweatshirt and trek pants to the gym while the person next to us is clad
in the most up-to-date sports apparel.

Nike's latest line of tennis clothes and work-out apparel for women
gives that sleek and trendy look even when we're trying our best to keep
up with the treadmill.

Nike Inc, based in Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer
and marketer of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and
accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities.

Looking cool and fashionable after a hard game of tennis is a real
challenge. Now you can achieve that stylish, unruffled look with a
selection from Nike's Branded Athletics-All Conditions Gear
(affectionately known as BA-ACG) which combines street fashion with
adventure sports.

The tennis court literally becomes your catwalk as you wear Nike's
latest tennis line that is comfortable, practical and yet fashionable. The
clothes showcased in this line remain simple but offer subtle stylish
details.

Tennis buffs will be able to choose from hooded jackets, short or long-
sleeved T-shirts and pullovers that come in double-tone colours from
sassy, bold orange to navy blue or fashionable shorts and long pants that
come in cool blue or army green. Fuss-free while retaining those unique
elements of panache, they are perfect for tennis players who want to look
great while delivering that grand slam on court.

This new line is certain to be a hit with the young and fashion-
conscious yuppies.

But tennis players, old and young alike, will find that Nike's BA-ACG
reflects their unique individual sense of style.

Taking the lead from tennis stars and Nike athletes, Andre Agassi and
Leyton Hewitt who shine on court as well as in the celebrity tabloids,
Nike turns tennis clothes into fashion statements.

The BA-ACG range is available at Bukit Bintang Plaza or the new flagship
store in KL Plaza and all Nike outlets.

For sportswomen, glam up in Nike's latest line of workout apparel du
jour that offers the best of fashion, variety and glamour. Make your
aerobics session more glamorous with Nike's workout and yoga pants that
make a great alternative to shorts. You'll get to show off your slim,
toned legs with these stretchy lycra pants that provide ease of movement
and comfort through the most vigorous of work-outs.

No work-out apparel is complete without well-cut tops that provide
support and optimum comfort. Each top is evident of Nike's close attention
to details through the fashionable construction and placement of straps,
innovative stitching and seams.

In bright colours to give you that spurt of excitement or dark colours
for that slimmer, sleeker look, the skintight tops helps you show off
those dividends from the workouts.

Want to go for a cup of cappuccino (black of course!) after workout?
Just throw on Nike's therma-fit jacket in bright mandarin or the Nike
hooded cap sleeve lycra and walk out in style.

Or, you can wear pieces from both lines or mix and match as you please
when bumming out at your favourite mall, on casual days at the office or
just about anywhere that you want go.

Nike's latest lineups are that versatile, stylish, innovative while
maintaining the elements of functionality and comfort.
                               END

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture - Cool and comfortable ... for the hip and on-the-move people.
Picture - Suitable for all ... functional yet stylish.  Picture - Above: Mix and
match ... sports top (RM85), lycra workout pants (RM149), white cap sleeve,
hooded top (RM129).  Picture - Trendy ... choose from bold orange to navy blue.
Picture - Right: Latest for women ... city therma-fit jacket (RM299), yoga pants
(RM129), pique long sports top (RM89).

            Copyright 2000 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                             584 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

US$ 2.20 not real cost of Nike shoes

                                 June 23, 2000


I REFER to your report (ST, June 20) on a seminar held for PSC scholars, where
Mr Lim Swee Say, Minister of State for Communications and Information
Technology, delivered an address.

Firstly, we thank Mr Lim for acknowledging Nike as a company driven by
"value-creation", with strong marketing, design and cutting-edge technology.

However, we feel we must clarify the mistaken perception that "a pair of shoes
selling for US$ 120 ... costs only US$ 2.20 to make". This is not an accurate
reflection of the cost.

A pair of Nike footwear is made up of many components. Typically, each shoe is
made of up of 34 individual parts, for which the right materials are sourced
globally prior to production.

These individual product-component costs certainly have to be factored into the
cost of production, as does the investment in machinery and general set-up of
the premises where final assembly is conducted.

As highlighted by Mr Lim, Nike does expend great effort and resources in
research, testing and design to ensure innovative products and up-to-date
designs for our products, and these elements should be reflected in the "cost"
of producing a shoe.

While the details of product costing remain confidential in every company,
including ours, we feel that we have to take the opportunity to make this simple
clarification, particularly as the message was addressed to "scholars" who,
presumably, will have a strong influence in shaping the future of the nation,
and as the article was meant for the public.

KATHRYN NG Marketing Director Nike Southeast Asia

SECTION: Forum; Pg. 69

LENGTH: 264 words

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                Copyright 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


                             586 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 16, 2000

Golf: Woods hits the Dollars 100m jackpot

BYLINE: David Davies

SECTION: Guardian Sport Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 505 words


Tiger Woods, winner of the last three major championships and four of the last
five, has signed the richest endorsement contract in the history of sport-for
Dollars 100m (pounds 70m).

That is what it has cost Nike to retain his services to September 2006, and
yesterday the president of Nike Golf, Bob Wood, said: "We are really, really
happy. We have a comprehensive agreement that covers Tiger from head to toe,
plus using our golf ball."

The contract is said by the American magazine Golfweek to be "far beyond
anything Michael Jordan received". Quoting a scource close to Nike, it went on:
"This is absolutely the richest-ever sporting endorsement. Nothing has ever been
close."

Not that it unduly impresses Earl Woods, Tiger's father. When his son turned
professional in August 1996 the golfing world gasped when Nike paid Dollars 40m
for his signature. But Earl, with an eye to the future, described that sum as
being only "chump change" and yesterday he was similarly guarded.

"The next contract," he said, "in 2006 will make that 100 million look like a
bargain. There's no doubt that Tiger is going to get better, he's far from
having reached his potential. This deal reflects the growing stature of Tiger in
world sports, and that is just going to continue to grow."

Woods has already won nine tournaments on the US Tour this year, the first to
reach that mark since Sam Snead won 11 in 1950, and at St Andrews this year he
became the youngest man ever to win a career grand slam when he won the Open by
eight shots.

Prior to that he had won the 2000 US Open by 15 shots, and his first major
championship, the US Masters in 1997, was won by 12 shots. Only in the US PGA of
1999, when he was chased to the line by Sergio Garcia before winning by one
shot, was the slam in any danger.

He has ruled world golf in the past two years and, as Nike has discovered, such
brilliance has its price. There is even scope for extending that contract
because Nike, as of now, does not make golf clubs, so that aspect of Woods's
career is not covered by the current agreement. But when Nike does start making
clubs, as is anticipated, it will doubtless cost the company yet more millions.

The scale of the new contract is bad news for the television companies in
America, who will shortly have to renegotiate their contract to cover the US
Tour. The Tour organisers will be sure to capitalise on the fact that ratings
soar whenever Tiger is anywhere near contention and will demand yet another huge
increase, so enabling prize funds to go up yet again.

That in turn could be bad news for the European Tour, which is already losing
many of its best players to America, after the last round of TV talks produced
purses of pounds 3m-pounds 5m for many events in the US.

If that figure were to rise substantially yet again then even such players as
Lee Westwood, Darren Clarke and Colin Montgomerie might be tempted to play more
in the States, diminishing the attraction of European events.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             588 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                         May 11, 2000, Thursday, FINAL

Nike markets speedometer on a shoestring

BYLINE: Andy Ogle

SECTION: News; A2

LENGTH: 491 words

DATELINE: EDMONTON


EDMONTON -- A runner's speedo-meter invented by a University of Alberta
engineering professor has been snapped up by Nike as one of five new high-tech
devices for the ''digital athlete,'' the sports marketing giant unveiled
yesterday.

The device, which Nike will sell with a version of its popular Triax wristwatch
for $199 U.S. starting in October in the United States and soon after that in
Canada, consists of sensors and a microprocessor designed to clip onto shoe
laces.

It's a sophisticated wireless gadget that measures stride length and velocity
and transmits the information to the watch, which gives constant speed and
distance readouts.

Ken Fyfe, who teaches mechanical engineering at the U of A, came up with the
idea a few years ago while talking with his wife, Anne Galloway, about ideas for
a design project to give his students.

A veteran marathon runner, she suggested something to help runners improve their
training.

Mr. Fyfe, also a runner and coach of the Leduc Track club, decided he'd work on
it himself rather than giving it to his students.

He later formed a company called Dynastream Innovations Inc. with his younger
brother Kip, an electrical engineer in Cochrane, Alta., to further develop
prototypes and shop it around to sports equipment manufacturers, including Nike.

Mr. Fyfe said his invention, which Nike is labelling the SDM (Speed Distance
Monitor) Triax 100, is a big improvement over the typical pedometer.

A pedometer is a stride counter that counts the number of steps you take and
then uses what you think is your average stride length to tell you how far
you've gone, he said.

''This thing is actually measuring each and every stride. So even if you change
your stride length, this calculates that.''

It's more than 97 per cent accurate and can also be used to store data.

Clare Hammil, vice- president of Nike Equipment, said at a news conference at
company headquarters in Beaverton, Oregon, that of the five devices the company
touted yesterday, it was most excited about the speed and distance watch. ''The
simple question when you go out for a run, go for a walk, you're out hiking, is
how far did I go and how fast did I move?''

Nike created a new division it is calling Nike Techlab to market the
speed-distance monitor and four other new products for what it's calling the
dotcom or digital athlete.

Its other products include a new heart monitor, a portable digital audio player,
a backcountry wristwatch that will give out altitude, compass and weather
readings and a new two-way radio for snowboarders, hikers and the like.

Ray Riley, Nike Equipment creative director, called the speed- distance watch a
simple out-of-the-box solution for today's athletes who are hungry for
information about their workout. ''You take it out, you put the little pod on
your foot, you put your watch on, you push a button and you go and you find out
what you need.''


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CP Color Photo: Grant Black, The Calgary Herald / Runners can lace Ken
Fyfe's sensor to their shoes for constant readouts of speed and distance.

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             589 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

             Metropolitan News Enterprise (Los Angeles, California)

                            June 22, 2000, Thursday

State High Court Agrees to Hear Case on Nike Asian Labor Controversy

BYLINE: By a MetNews Staff Writer

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 548 words


The state Supreme Court yesterday agreed to decide whether athletic shoe and
apparel giant Nike, Inc. can be held liable for alleged misrepresentations of
its labor practices in the Asian countries where its products are made.

A San Francisco Superior Court judge and a First District Court of Appeal panel
had rejected a private attorney-general suit brought under the unfair
competition law, Business and Professions Code Sec. 17200.

The lower courts rejected Marc Kasky's suit on First Amendment grounds. They
said the company's effort to persuade consumers that it was acting responsibly
on the issue shouldn't be judged by the same rules that govern advertisements
generally.

But Chief Justice Ronald George and Justices Stanley Mosk, Joyce L. Kennard,
Kathryn M. Werdegar, and Janice Rogers Brown voted to grant review, a court
official said.

Oregon-based Nike's products are largely manufactured by South Korean and
Taiwanese firms at factories in those countries and in China, Thailand,
Indonesia and Vietnam. Those companies reportedly employ between 300,000 and
500,000 employees to manufacture the shoes and other athletic gear.

Although a Nike-hired consulting firm reported favorable working conditions at
the factories, other investigators reported poor health conditions, 11- to
12-hour work days, compulsory overtime, violation of minimum wage laws, exposure
to dangerous levels of dust and toxic fumes, and employment of workers under the
age of 16.

A series of newspaper and television reports in 1996 and 1997 put additional
pressure on the company for its overseas labor record.

Nike fought back with a costly public relations campaign that characterized the
company as a leader in the fight to improve working conditions in the hot
countries. Press releases detailed answers to the allegations, as did a series
of letters to collegiate athletic directors.

Kasky sued over those releases and letters, alleging that Nike misrepresented
the facts when it asserted that workers are not subjected to corporal punishment
or sexual abuse, that the laws and regulations on wages, hours, health and
safety were observed, that pay averaged double the minimum wage in Southeast
Asia, and that employees receive free meals and health care and a "living wage."

Kasky's action was dismissed on demurrer, and the First District's Div. One
affirmed.

Justice Donald Swager said the statements at issue for Nike were intended to
promote a favorable corporate image and demand a different analysis than that
applying to product advertisements.

"The press releases and letters at issue here cross the boundary between
political and private decisionmaking," the justice said. "The citizen may want
to translate personal discontent over Nike's labor practices into political
action or may merely wish to refrain from purchasing its products manufactured
by undesired labor practices, just as he or she may wish to buy products with a
union identification."

The analysis isn't changed by the fact that Nike has an economic motivation in
defending its corporate image from criticism, he said. The communications were
still part of a "public dialogue on a matter of public concern within the core
area of expression protected by the First Amendment," he said.


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Metropolitan News Company


                             590 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 13, 2000

Merry cutting a dash as captain;
ATHLETICS

BYLINE: Neil Wilson

SECTION: Pg. 80

LENGTH: 456 words


KATHARINE MERRY modelled the revolutionary running kit created by her sponsors
yesterday on her first day as Britain's women's captain. But she will never be
allowed to wear it in her country's cause.

Merry's rise to the forefront of British athletics was formally acknowledged
when the 400metres runner succeeded the injured Paula Radcliffe as captain of
the women's team for this weekend's European Cup in Gateshead.

But she cannot match her new Nike outfit with her new role for Britain because
the American sportswear company is not the official supplier to the national
squad.

Merry, though, is looking forward to her new responsibilities, not that she
needs an introduction to them.The 25-year-old, who first made the team 12 years
ago as one of Britain's youngest ever internationals, said: 'I don't think it
entails much more than I have always done.

I've always kept an eye out for the younger girls in the team and been there if
they need advice.' Nike stole a march on German rivals, adidas, when Merry
showed off its new head-to-toe racing suit for the cameras.

But adidas will be the official supplier to Britain's athletes for the Olympics
in Sydney in September, although it doesn't launch its new kit until today when
heptathlete Denise Lewis performs the modelling honours.

Reebok, meanwhile, will clothe the British team for the European Cup.

Merry has a personal contract with Nike which insists she wears its kit whenever
national uniform is not obligatory. But the sportswear giant will not demand she
wears the Swift Suit.

Merry, however, is keen to give it a whirl. She may premiere her outfit with its
hood and gloved hands when she races world champion Cathy Freeman at Crystal
Palace on August 2.

Another Midlander, Bob Weir, has waited even longer than Merry to be men's
captain as successor to injured high jumper Dalton Grant.When Weir, 39, was
first on the team 18 years ago, UKA's chief executive David Moorcroft had still
not set his world 5000m record.

Britain's line-up for the European Cup was changed for the ninth time yesterday
when European javelin champion Steve Backley was replaced by silver medallist
Mick Hill after citing 'technical problems' with his throwing.

BEN JOHNSON sprinted again in Rome yesterday where he ran a world 100m record in
1987.This time his opponent was a woman pickpocket, and he lost. At stake this
time for the Canadian stripped of an Olympic gold medal after a positive drug
test was not a medal but his own wallet containing GBP 3,150.

Johnson, who is banned for life from athletics after two positive tests for
steroids, was robbed by gypsies who distracted him as he walked to a bank on
Rome's elegant Via Veneto.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SUITS YOU: MERRY IN HER NEW NIKE KIT

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             591 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 25, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Nike's Chief Cancels a Gift Over Monitor Of Sweatshops

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 709 words


The chairman of Nike, Phil Knight, will not make a planned $30 million
contribution to help his alma mater, the University of Oregon, renovate its
athletic stadium because the university joined a factory monitoring group other
than the one he supports, a senior Nike official said yesterday.

Mr. Knight, a billionaire who heads the world's largest footwear company, has
given about $30 million to the university over the last decade, but company
officials said he was disturbed that the university joined the Workers Rights
Consortium, a student-backed monitoring group.

Nike, which has faced criticism over working conditions in its overseas
factories, has often faulted the consortium for being unfriendly to apparel and
footwear manufacturers. Nike is an enthusiastic member of another monitoring
group, the Fair Labor Association, a White House-backed organization that,
unlike the Workers Rights Consortium, has apparel companies on its board.

In a statement, Nike said: "The University of Oregon, despite its unique
relationship with Nike and Phil, is free to align itself with the Workers Rights
Consortium. However, it does not mean that we are required to support those
efforts with which we have fundamental disagreements."

The University of Oregon, based in Eugene, has been developing plans to renovate
and expand Autzen Stadium, a project that is expected to cost $80 million.
University officials said they still hoped to talk with Mr. Knight to see
whether he might reconsider his decision.

Randy Newnham, a university senior and a coordinator of the Survival Center,
which supports social justice and human rights, criticized Mr. Knight's
decision.

"It's kind of amusing, considering that he's upset that we joined some
labor-monitoring body," Mr. Newnham said. "He keeps claiming that his company is
socially responsible and they don't use sweatshop labor. If that's the case, why
is he so upset that we joined this monitoring group? It kind of implies that
something isn't quite up to par."

Over the last six months, student groups at dozens of campuses have held sit-ins
and demonstrations to pressure their universities to join the Workers Rights
Consortium, instead of the Fair Labor Association. The consortium, set up by
students with the backing of several labor unions, now has 45 universities as
members. It monitors overseas factories that make hats, T-shirts and other
apparel that are made under license and carry a university's logo.

The students assert that the Fair Labor Association is dominated by corporations
and will not be vigorous in its monitoring. Its members include several consumer
groups, human rights groups and 130 colleges.

Nike officials criticize the consortium's makeup and its requirement for
surprise monitoring visits.

"We object to the Workers Rights Consortium because it does not provide a seat
on the table for companies," said Vada Manager, a Nike spokesman. "Another issue
is it has a 'gotcha' monitoring system, which in our minds is not a serious way
to achieve the common goal that we all want to achieve, which is to eradicate
sweatshop conditions."

To pressure Nike, United Students Against Sweatshops, the umbrella group backing
the consortium, the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees and
other groups issued a report yesterday that criticized Nike for using
sweatshops. The report faults Nike for doing much of its production in China,
where independent unions are prohibited and where, the report said, workers are
paid at most $1.50 for a pair of shoes that sells for $100.

Nike officials assert that the company has made great strides in improving its
factories, that they do more monitoring than most companies and that their
factories usually pay more than other factories in the regions where they are
situated.

Last month, Nike said it was ending its agreement to supply Brown University's
hockey teams after Brown joined the consortium. Brown officials said Nike's move
resulted from miscommunication.

Nicholas Reville, a Brown junior active in United Students Against Sweatshops,
said Nike and Mr. Knight moved against Brown and the University of Oregon, to
warn other universities against join the Workers Rights Consortium.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Phil Knight

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             594 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 20, 2000, Friday

SPRING FEVER;
 TRAMPOLINE-HEELED TRAINERS SET TO BE THE LATEST TEENAGE CRAZE

BYLINE: Andy Lines, Us Editor In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 287 words


TEENAGERS are set to jump on the latest craze - high-tech bouncing shoes dubbed
"trampoline trainers".

Sportswear giant Nike are releasing the pounds 100 a pair shoes, named Shox,
with a huge advertising campaign simply called Boing.

Despite their high cost industry experts think they will soon become a cult
fashion accessory for youngsters around the world.

John Horan, publisher of Sporting Goods Intelligence, said: "The 14-year-old
trainer connoisseurs will think it's cool and new - and that's where this is
aimed." Scientists have spent 16 years perfecting the trainers, which use
special foam - the same as that used in the nose cones of Formula 1 racing cars
- in the heel to produce the bounce effect.

There are three types for running, basketball and training.

They will go on sale in Britain this year.

But top American sports stars including Olympic gold medallists Maurice Greene
and Marion Jones and basketball star Vince Carter, are already wearing the
shoes.

Mario Lafortune, director of Nike sports research laboratory, led the team which
has been testing them since 1984.

He said that four columns of high density foam in the heels act "just like the
suspension system of a car - they are the suspension system for the athlete.

"They make the difference between landing on concrete and landing on a small
trampoline.

"They the most tested piece of footwear technology ever to come out of our lab."

And Juliet Moran, Nike vice-president, added: "With Nike Shox we set out to
really push the envelope of athletic footwear.

"Nike Shox delivers on what people expect from us - a unique combination of
innovation and performance with a little bit of magic."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WEARER: Greene; USER: US basketball star Carter wore Shox at; Olympics

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             598 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             June 24, 2000 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Swift suit comes out of the closet;
ATHLETICS

BYLINE: LOUISE EVANS and agencies

SECTION: SPORT; Sporting Life; Pg. 74

LENGTH: 563 words


Following hot on the high-tech heels of the adidas neck-to-ankle compression
suit, Nike has unveiled its rival "swift suit" for sprinters at the Olympics.

Cathy Freeman and fellow Nike-backed athletes Marion Jones, Maurice Greene and
Michael Johnson have tested the full-body version which has been two years in
the design and making.

Teams from Australia, the United States, Kenya and other countries contracted to
Nike for the Olympics will be offered the suits to test and wear at the Games,
subject to approval.

Athletes testing the adidas suit include Commonwealth 100m champion Ato Boldon,
Olympic champion Donovan Bailey and Matt Shirvington.

Like the adidas model, Nike's suit is designed to protect muscles and facilitate
movement. It differs from adidas in that it is hooded, has mesh ear holes,
half-gloves and stirrups, and is made from five different fabrics.

Marion Jones, the world's fastest woman, will line up in the suit for the first
time in the 100m at the Prefontaine Classic grand prix meeting in Eugene,
Oregon, this weekend.

The 100m world champion has already tested it in training and declared it
"awesome".

"When you get into the suit and it's so sleek and smooth, it seems like you are
going to cut through the wind, through the air," Jones said.

"I am ready to run fast period. I am probably going to do that whatever. It's
going to be interesting to see this weekend ... how much faster I am going to
run. But it's about performance, that's what it comes down to."

Nike-backed Australian sprinter Damien Marsh agreed, saying that training and
performance made the athlete, not clothing.

Marsh said he was wearing distance-running spikes to relieve pressure on a sore
Achilles when he lined up and won the 1995 grand prix final in Monte Carlo in
10.13s. He spent the next two years out of the sport after rupturing his
Achilles but is now back training for the Olympics.

"To me it doesn't matter what you wear. Because of the rigid spike plates you
get on shoes these days you'll get a lot of guys getting Achilles problems.

"I can see the sense with these Nike suits being tight-fitting but it gives you
a false sense of security. What happens when it starts to stretch and doesn't
hold you in the same way? The only way is to do it yourself, get out there and
do the sit-ups to get strength through the abdominals and back work to keep your
shoulders strong.

"At the end of the day Carl Lewis didn't need a suit to run fast. It's not for
me, either."

Nike-backed Australian Commonwealth long-jump champion Peter Burge was
circumspect about the prototype suit he has seen but not worn.

"The one I saw was all-white, so it looked a bit suss, it would look good on
Oxford Street but when they put some colour to it, it should be fine," Burge
said. "I've been told there's a good chance we'll have it for the Olympics which
would be pretty cool. I would only wear it in warm-up if it was cold to keep
warm.

"It would stop getting sand in your shorts but I wear tights so I've got that
problem sorted. I get sand in my shoes but I am too superstitious to take my
shoes off in between jumps. I like everything to feel the same the whole
competition. I just try and shake it out.

"I don't think a suit is going to make me jump further, either. I don't want to
attract people because of the way I look. I want to attract people because of
how far I jump. That is the issue."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: Is it a bird? Is it a plane? ... no, it's US 800m runner Gina
Dewitt on the streets of Beaverton, Oregon, in Nike's new swift suit. Photograph
by AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             601 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD.)

                          September 7, 2000, Thursday

BYLINE: By Rachel Mansour ; Daily Record Business Writer

SECTION: Pg. 1Abot

LENGTH: 751 words


Tucked away in a office on Baltimore's South Street is Global Alliance for
Workers and Communities, a not-for-profit group with a grand scheme -- to
alleviate poor working conditions in overseas factories -- and even bigger
partners, including Nike Inc. and Gap Inc., to carry it out.      Global
Alliance, an initiative of the International Youth Foundation, was formed in
April of last year by Nike, the Gap, The World Bank Group and Pennsylvania State
University, among other organizations, to give foreign factory workers a voice
about their working conditions through one-on-one interviews, which guide Global
Alliance in developing programs that address those concerns.     "The Global
Alliance formed as part of an effort to provide workers with an opportunity to
develop their potential and fulfill their aspirations," said Kevin F.F. Quigley,
executive director of the group. He pointed out that healthy and happy workers
help the factories run more smoothly and the corporations that run them turn
better profits.     Nike said this program is a chance to attack a pervasive
issue differently and strategically.     "We felt like we needed to do something
completely innovative and to focus on the worker and the factory manager," said
Maria Eitel, vice president and senior adviser for corporate responsibility at
Nike. "We are opening up the whole process with opinions of workers. This is
really a different way of working and will make some really important
contributions."    Nike has supplied $ 7.7 million and the Gap has pledged $ 5
million during the next five years, and the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation provided a $ 250,000 grant.      The funds will support the
assessments and programs in 12 countries, including Thailand, Vietnam,
Indonesia, China and possibly India, Mexico, Bulgaria and Romania. The group
expects to spend about $ 14 million over five years.     There are no conflicts
of interest, Quigley said, because worker interviews are confidential and the
corporations and factory managers cannot attach strings to their participation
or in the funding of Global Alliance. Survey participation is voluntary and
workers are compensated for their donated time.     Eitel touted the group's
"transparency" as it publishes its methods and quarterly findings on its
Web-site, www.theglobalalliance.org.     Thus far the group has surveyed about
4,000 workers -- most of whom are young women -- in 12 Nike apparel and shoe
factories in Thailand and Vietnam. Operations are underway in 19 of Indonesia's
Gap and Nike factories, said Quigley. Global Alliance will be working with
factory workers in China by early next year, he added.     Most workers in the
Thailand and Vietnam factories believe they are paid fairly but want access to
health care and training for future job growth opportunities, according to
Global Alliance's first annual report. For instance, 47 percent of Thailand's
survey participants want to resume basic education. Many workers complained
about persistent colds and headaches. Although they receive free annual
physicals, they often do not know how to interpret the results, the report said.

   Global Alliance is in the midst of organizing health clinics, medical
training seminars and health-care education programs on reproductive health in
the Thailand and Vietnam factories. Setting up schools and classes for workers
during and after work is in progress.     Faced with a daunting challenge, the
partnership has trimmed some of its initial goals during the past year. It
originally planned to reach 25 countries and to monitor illegal working
conditions, but the number of countries has been cut to 12. Global Alliance will
only report illegal activities when revealed during the assessment process, the
annual report said.     The group's partners have realized they can't fulfill
every worker need and will rely more on local nongovernmental organizations to
help carry out programs, the report stated. More corporate partners will augment
the group's potential through funding and access to other types of factories,
Quigley said.     "We are beginning to lay the foundation for a very successful
initiative, but this is not easy. It is a complicated environment to work in,"
he said. "This is just our first step. The next step is to act and to deliver
effective and sustainable programs. At that point we could say with much more
confidence that we have been successful."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 The Daily Record Co.


                             602 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               September 28, 2000

Nike poised to boot Umbro off Reds' kit

BYLINE: CHRIS BARRY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 331 words



PREMIERSHIP champion Manchester United has struck a world record GBP 300m kit
sponsorship deal with US sportswear firm Nike, it was reported today.  The GBP
20m-a-year contract, to run for 15 years, could be confirmed on Monday, when the
club announces half-year results.

Manchester United shares climbed 17p - 6.59 per cent - from 257p to 274p in
early trading.  The deal, yet to be confirmed by either party, will dwarf the
GBP 65m Nike paid for a 10-year deal with the Brazilian FA.

The contract, which underlines the strength of Manchester United as the leading
global sports brand, is set to begin at the start of the 2002-3 season.  While
the Nike deal is good news for United and its shareholders, it will be a body
blow to Manchester sports brand Umbro, which has supplied the famous red shirts
for the last eight years.

However, Martin Prothero, head of marketing at Umbro International, was not
giving up hope.  Umbro has a contract with Manchester United until July 2002. We
continue to be in negotiations about our ongoing situation.''

Despite the strong links between Umbro and Manchester United - Reds' chief
executive Peter Kenyon and group marketing director Peter Draper both used to
work in senior roles there - Umbro may ultimately lack the financial muscle to
out-bid Nike, one of the biggest sportswear companies in the world.  Umbro also
supplies the England kit and also has deals with leading clubs Chelsea and
Celtic. Mr Prothero was not willing to discuss the possible impact of losing
Manchester United, which experts say would be the jewel in the crown'' for any
sportswear company.

Roy Kaitcer, of Manchester stockbrokers Wise Speke, raised questions about
whether United will be able to confirm the deal with Nike, with so much of the
Umbro deal still to run.  United's group marketing director Peter Draper
declined to comment on the reports today, stating: I am not in a position to say
anything.''


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Diamond deal . ..  but will the Umbro logo disappear off Man United's
shirts?

                     Copyright 2000 Manchester Evening News


                             608 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 6, 2000, Wednesday

FOOTBALL: NIKE SAY JUST DO IT, FERGIE

BYLINE: Alan Nixon

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 176 words


SIR ALEX FERGUSON is being head-hunted by sportswear giants Nike to become their
football ambassador - on a massive contract.

Talks between the Manchester United boss and the American company are at an
advanced stage and Ferguson may sign a deal shortly.

Ferguson has been targeted by the firm as the ideal man to front their push for
top football contracts with clubs and players worldwide.

He revealed to United shareholders that he is considering one lucrative job
offer after being pursued by dozens of top companies.

He said: "I've got a lot of offers already. One of them is really staggering. It
would be a four-year contract for a huge amount of money and would involve a lot
of travelling."

The salary being discussed is around pounds 1million-a-year on a four-year
contract with VIP expenses, and the possibilities of bonuses are endless.

And Nike may even be willing to offer Ferguson the job on a 'part-time' basis.
However, it would too demanding for Ferguson to work at United in a significant
capacity as well.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FERGIE is laughing all the way to the bank

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             610 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                          September 28, 2000 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

Ambush! All's fair in adland wars;
OLYMPIC FEATURE

BYLINE: Rochelle Burbury

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1834 words


Ambush marketing, or parasite marketing as some prefer to call it, is not about
ethics but opportunism. And it is a major problem for the IOC because it can
devalue an Olympic sponsorship, writes Rochelle Burbury.

hile Ian Thorpe basked in the adulation of winning a Gold medal in the 400
metres swimming last week, one Olympic sponsor was not amused.

As Thorpe stood on the dais, the Nike logo on his team tracksuit was covered by
the Australian flag. Thorpe is, of course, sponsored by non-Olympic sponsor
adidas, and there are suggestions that Nike believed adidas had persuaded Thorpe
to intentionally cover the competitive logo.

Both adidas and Thorpe deny any deliberate attempt to hide the Nike logo, but
the incident has echoes of the US Basketball "Dream Team" at the 1992 Games,
when several high-earning players refused to wear the Reebok team tracksuit to
receive their medals because they were sponsored by Nike.

A compromise was reached when the players draped the US flag over the logo.

"I've got about two million good reasons not to wear Reebok," player Charles
Barkley said at the time. His Nike stablemate Michael Jordan added: "We agreed
not to deface the Reebok outfit. The American flag cannot deface anything."

Thorpe's manager, David Flaskas from Grand Slam International, says he and
Thorpe would not condone such activity, which he describes as "bordering on
paranoia".

"Ian was there to race, not to worry about his sponsorship obligations.

"On the night of the 400m everything was a blur [to Ian] and he was so emotional
he was in no state to put a flag over a logo," Flaskas says. "The rivalry
between adidas and Nike has probably got more to do with it than Ian."

Before it became a Sydney Olympics sponsor at the 11th hour late last year, Nike
had been known as one of the most celebrated ambush marketers.

In Atlanta, Nike built an interactive sports centre overlooking the Olympic park
and after sprinter Michael Johnson, wearing gold Nike shoes, won a Gold medal,
he said: "Just as I'm part of the Olympics, Nike's part of the Olympics."

In Sydney, the now non-sponsor adidas has built an athlete hospitality and
international media centre at Sydney's Shore school.

It has hosted numerous exclusive media events with its sponsored medal-winning
athletes, including one with Thorpe at Taronga Zoo's seal pool which saw 150
members of the media attend. "adidas has done a fabulous job," says sponsorship
marketing expert Kim Skildum-Reid, who hosted a series of ambush marketing
workshops before the Games. "They partner 26 of the 28 sports in the Olympic
Games and that's absolutely a 100 per cent true statement and that's what people
take away. And everyone knows the two sports they don't [sponsor]. They've
almost outNike-ed Nike."

adidas marketing director Rob Mills says adidas equips 3,500 athletes and has
every right to promote its association with sport. He denies, however, that
adidas put Thorpe up to covering the Nike logo.

"We briefed all our athletes pre-Games. We sat down and said we expected them to
comply and wear the [team] uniforms. Frankly, it's ironic that some people are
making those assumptions," he says.

"We in no way asked out athletes to do that ... We've been on the other side of
that as well and we respect that another brand is a sponsor and has certain
rights."

Mills also defends adidas's marketing program. "We define ambush marketing as
when you break laws. We've been very careful right from the start of our
planning in '97 that we don't break local laws and our commitments to the
International Olympic Committee," he says.

"We don't at all see ourselves as ambush marketers but as sports marketers at
the biggest sporting event ... If we come out of research results as an Olympic
sponsor we'll be extremely disappointed. We want our brand to strengthen and be
seen as a premium sports brand [and] we are confident that we're moving in that
direction."

Ambush marketing, or parasite marketing as some prefer to call it, is not about
ethics, but opportunism. An IOC international study of consumers in 1996 found
that 25 per cent thought ambush marketing was clever. Done well, it can muddy
the waters of who is an official sponsor. You only have to look at research in
June and July by Sweeney Sports, which measures consumer awareness of Olympic
sponsors, to see how effective ambushing can be. Among its rankings of most
recognised Olympic sponsors, non-sponsors adidas and Qantas ranked seventh and
eighth respectively.

Ambushing is a major problem for the IOC because it has the potential to devalue
an Olympic sponsorship. Ambush marketing is notoriously difficult to police,
despite legislation to protect sponsors, and there is no law that states that it
is prohibited, according to lawyer Kate Jordan from Clayton Utz.

Even though IOC marketing director Michael Payne sees Sydney's Games as the most
ambush-free of any Olympics, there has been plenty of borderline activity and
several breaches of legislation designed to protect sponsors before the Games
began.

Before the Games, SOCOG was able to prevent incidences of ambush marketing,
including attempts by washing powder manufacturer Omo and National Australia
Bank. Mazda was forced to withdraw an ad in July which congratulated its
sponsored swimmers Michael Klim and Thorpe for making the Olympic team, and
Fairfax narrowly averted pulping its Good Weekend magazine last week after an ad
from OzEmail featured pole

vaulter Emma George breaching the AOC's guidelines.

Non-sponsor Mitsubishi, whose ads use the line "Gold, Silver Bronze, Silver,
Gold, Diamond", has slipped through the loop because its ads are considered to
be congratulatory. Non-sponsor Yamaha, which featured on musicians' instruments
during the Opening Ceremony, was able to get away with it because instruments
were considered equipment by the IOC, as are the giant TV screens and time
results with branding by sponsors Panasonic and Swatch in various venues.

No company would admit to being an ambush marketeer, preferring to defend their
right to promote themselves during the world's biggest sporting event. But there
is little doubt that ambushing is alive and well in Sydney.

National Australia Bank tried its luck in 1997, just after Westpac was announced
as a sponsor, with its "Team National" advertising featuring 12 athletes. But
sponsorship experts branded it as "contrived", particularly because NAB had
little history of supporting sport.

Qantas has been more successful. It began its campaign back in 1997, when it
signed up 40 athletes 30 of whom were Olympians to feature in its advertising.
Qantas has consistently denied that it is ambush marketing but rather promoting
its long association with sport. It was caught out last month, however, after
Olympic sponsor Ansett took legal action over two newspaper advertisements one
featuring Cathy Freeman and another promoting its "Olympic sale".

The matter was settled out of court and overnight just before the start of the
Games all Qantas's advertising featuring athletes was removed and replaced by a
new "I still call Australia home" campaign with the children's choir. Its ads
now carry the disclaimer "Qantas is not an Olympic sponsor".

Ansett accused its rival of being "un-Australian" and at the time, Qantas deputy
chief executive officer Geoff Dixon said: "No-one and no legislation I know of
says that an 80-year-old company with our reputation cannot market ourselves
during this event."

Ansett Olympics spokesman Michael Rolnick says his airline has not had any
concerns from Qantas during the Games.

"We didn't go to court to say [Qantas] couldn't advertise during the Games.
There were two examples in newspapers which indicated to us a trend where it
specifically violated the Trade Practices Act and the Olympic Indicia Act. We
had a very strong case and had some support from SOCOG and the IOC but we could
have had some more," he said.

"It's something any sponsor would do to defend its position ... the legal action
and subsequent settlement left Ansett very pleased with the outcome."

Skildum-Reid says without the legal action, Qantas has mounted an almost perfect
ambush.

"What sponsorship is about and when it's really powerful is when it makes an
emotional connection with your audience.

"They've managed to convey a pride in our athletes and showcasing Australia and
a pride in Australia more than any other sponsor has. They're almost ambushing
the emotion and that's what makes it so powerful," she says.

Sponsor Carlton & United Breweries also had cause to take rival Lion Nathan to
court after it ran ads stating that its brand Tooheys was the "beer of choice"
at Stadium Australia. The matter was settled out of court but CUB is still
seeking damages and relief and will head back to court next month.

Lion Nathan, however, defends its position. "Those ads stopped in August before
any of this CUB suggestion we were involved in ambush marketing," spokesman
Gabriel McDowell says.

"Tooheys New is the official beer at Stadium Australia for every event outside
Olympic events and we believe it's perfectly legitimate and a natural promotion
for us to be involved with. We'll definitely be defending it [in court] because
we believe we've done absolutely nothing wrong with that promotion."

Tooheys' television commercials, including one where the marathon blue line
diverts to a backyard barbeque, has featured in stories on German, French,
American and British TV shows. The ads carry a similar disclaimer to Qantas.

"The ad makes it abundantly clear that we're not a sponsor ... it's entirely
appropriate beer is a large part of celebration and we all have a duty to
promote ourselves during this period. If it was ambush marketing I'm sure CUB
would be on to it. Just because our competitor is a sponsor of the Games doesn't
mean that we'll sit back and do nothing. That would be unprofessional."

The Olympic venues and live sites so far have been relatively ambush free. SOCOG
legal counsel and brand protection manager Catherine McGill and her team of 50
ambush police have found only isolated incidences of breaches, usually by
spectators carrying flags partly branded who did not understand the laws.

"We've been very, very lucky ... There's been nothing on an orchestrated level
and we're extremely pleased with the result," she says. "The counterfeiting
program has been extremely successful as well ... We have found certain
infringements but it's much lower than prior to the Games."

Skildum-Reid says ambushers are more sophisticated with their programs today.

"People are starting to realise that old-style ambushing of sneaking your logo
into the stadium and holding it up behind a goal post doesn't work anymore ...
In the past a lot of ambush was done for ambush's sake because it was there but
did it work for their brand? Not really," she says.

"Now it's bigger and functions very much like a sponsorship without the fee.
It's planned and budgeted for for years exactly the way their counterparts, the
sponsors, are doing."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illus: Qantas's advertising featuring athletes was removed and replaced
by a new campaign with the children's choir following legal action by Ansett.
Photo-Illustration: ROB HOMER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2000 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             611 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                   September 16, 2000 Saturday Final Edition

Nike signs Tiger Woods for $100m US, but is he worth it?

SOURCE: The Associated Press

BYLINE: Doug Ferguson

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. E05

LENGTH: 459 words


Golf

Tiger Woods formally signed a new five-year endorsement contract with Nike
yesterday as industry analysts tried to answer the 100-million US question.

Is a golfer worth that much money?

"Part of that answer rests with what Nike's ultimate goals really are," said Bob
Williams of Chicago-based Burns Sports Celebrity Service, which matches athletes
with corporate sponsors.

"The good news is they found Michael Jordan's replacement as the most marketable
athlete in the world, and the best athlete in the world."

The downside, Williams said, is that golf is a niche sport that doesn't reach
the masses and doesn't have the television ratings the NBA pulled in during the
Jordan era.

"How much growth is there in golf?" Williams said. "And how much can Nike
capitalize?"

The deal is worth an estimated $148.6 million Cdn over five years, according to
a source close to the negotiations who spoke on condition of anonymity. It is
believed to be the richest endorsement contract in sports, depending on how that
is defined.

Williams said Jordan made as much as $37 million a year, depending on sales.
Former heavyweight champion George Foreman recently sold his likeness to Salton
Inc., which makes barbecue grills, for more than $204 million in cash and
stocks.

But that was a lifetime deal. Woods' new contract expires in 2006 when he will
be 30 and just hitting the prime of his career.

"The value Nike received on the first contract caused me to come to my
conclusion that it would be chump change," his father, Earl Woods, said of the
five-year, $59.4 million deal that raised eyebrows in 1996.

"And this contract will be chump change compared to the next one, because Tiger
is only going to get bigger and better."

While not discussing specifics of the contract, Nike Golf president Bob Wood
said money was not the best way to measure Woods' worth.

"We don't even look at it like that," he said. "When the first one came out,
everyone said, 'What the hell did you do that for?' His representation is enough
to reinforce everything we stand for -- competitiveness, excellence and a desire
to be better."

Trying to measure Woods' value goes beyond Nike.

Agent Mark Steinberg said yesterday he is working on contract extensions with
other companies Woods endorses, such as American Express and EA Sports.

He said "They will compensate Tiger fairly for what he does for each of them."

But Nike is in a different league. Woods is a walking swoosh from the top of his
hat to the heel of his shoe.

"He's the most photographed athlete -- and maybe the most photographed
entertainer," Steinberg said. "Nike is the only brand you can see on this
person. That's why it makes it a more all-encompassing endorsement."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tiger Woods

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 2000 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                             612 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            December 1, 2000 Friday
                                  Late Edition

Accountant fires back: deal made Freeman rich

BYLINE: Jacquelin Magnay

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 448 words


Cathy Freeman earned more than the Australian cricketer Shane Warne from her
main sponsor Nike and, rather than being naive, was actively involved in her
financial affairs, her former accountant Peter Jess claimed yesterday.

Jess revealed that Freeman has not one, but two lucrative Nike deals. "They
rocketed her to pre-eminence in sponsorship history," he said.

The first deal was a personal contract worth "multi-millions" as a result of
compounding performance bonuses that he said made her Australia's highest-paid
sportswoman. The second was a contract co-joined with the Melbourne
International Track Club (MITC) which was specifically designed to
"double-leverage" her money. Both were signed in 1996.

Jess said Nike was totally unaware that the bulk of its four-year $1 million
contract with MITC would go to Freeman.

Freeman has submitted court documents saying she was only entitled to $5,000 a
year and some licensing rights under the MITC Nike contract, but Jess yesterday
alleged that Freeman "received nearly $500,000 in direct benefits from it".

Jess and Freeman's former partner Nick Bideau, who are both directors of MITC,
are suing the Olympic champion for breach of contract after she ripped up their
management contract in May. The case is to be heard in the Victorian Supreme
Court today.

Jess said: "The only people who will win out of this case are the lawyers; it is
just a joke. She hasn't done badly, and we have been pilloried for doing a
creative job."

Bideau said yesterday: "The case is out of my hands, otherwise it would have
been sorted out by now". Jess has rejected Freeman's claims to the court that
she was "at a special disability" and "naive and inexperienced". He says she
attended nearly all of the meetings with Nike when the deals were being
negotiated and that around 12 months ago Freeman and her husband Sandy Bodecker
went through her financial dealings.

"They understood the structure of her finances and approved of it all," Jess
said.

He said the MITC was a vehicle for Freeman to recoup sponsorship monies lost
just after the Atlanta Olympics, when Kelloggs and Schweppes failed to renew
their deals after she won a silver medal. Bideau and Jess had come up with the
idea of creating a private club based around Freeman, but attracting others of
the ilk of marathon runner Steve Moneghetti.

"MITC mirrored the contract she already had with Nike, and for that we gained an
extra $500,000 over the period of the contract without her doing one extra
single thing," Jess said.

"Nike didn't know how much money was going to Freeman; from their point of view
it was a sponsorship deal of 27 athletes, although the bulk of that went to
Catherine Freeman."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illus: Freeman ... ``actively involved''.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             616 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                               February 19, 2000

Raid on Kuantan shop nets imitation sports shoes

SECTION: National; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 217 words

DATELINE: Kuantan


KUANTAN, Fri. - The Pahang Domestic Trade and Consumer Affairs Enforcement
Unit seized some 30 pairs of imitation Nike sports shoes worth about
RM1,200 at the Kuantan Parade shopping complex.

Investigation revealed the trader had obtained the shoes, which were
made in China, from a source in Batu Pahat, Johor.

The Pahang Domestic Trade and Consumer Affairs Enforcement Unit had
informed their counterpart in Batu Pahat to enable action to be taken.

The New Straits Times was informed that the Domestic Trade and Consumer
Affairs Enforcement Unit in Batu Pahat had successfully seized a large
number of popular branded sport shoes from a warehouse there based on the
information.

Assistant Enforcement Unit head Ahmad Sharif said action was taken
against the shop at Kuantan Parade after the department was informed by
the Nike distributor in Kuala Lumpur on the sale of the imitation shoes.

"Based on that report, we raided the sports equipment shop," he said.

Ahmad said if the trader were to be found guilty of selling imitation
goods, he could be fined up to RM50,000, as stated in the Trade
Description Act.

He added that if customers were not careful when purchasing Nike shoes,
they might be conned into buying the imitations at the price of the
original.


LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture - Seized ... Ahmad arranging the 30 pairs of imitation Nike
shoes which were seized from the Kuantan Parade Shopping Complex, on Tuesday.-By
Nik Hariff Hassan.

            Copyright 2000 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                             622 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     August 30, 2000, Wednesday, Edition 1

CARTER, NIKE REPORTED NEAR SIGNING A WHOPPING SHOE DEAL

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 561 words




Doug Smith HONOLULU - A Vince Carter-Tiger Woods showdown, perhaps?

 Carter, one of the NBA's most marketable commodities, may be soon joining
Woods, arguably the hottest personality in the sports world today, in the Nike
endorsement fold.

The Internet site Hoopstv.com reported yesterday that Carter, Nike and Puma had
agreed to a deal that would settle a dispute with Puma for about $18 million
(all figures U.S.) and pay Carter about $12 million over the next six years as
another Nike client.

Merle Scott, one of Carter's agents with the firm IMG, told The Star yesterday
that no deal had been finalized to allow Carter to finally get fully clear of a
contract he had originally signed with Puma three years ago.

Carter denied the Internet report.

"There's no deal," he told Associated Press. "Everybody thinks they know
everything that's going on with me. I'm tired of it, really," Carter said at the
U.S. Olympic basketball team training camp. "I just got out of a Puma suit, so
how can I have a deal ready?

"Everybody's jumping the gun."

But a source close to Carter did say negotiations are continuing and could wrap
up before the end of the week.

"It's my impression (Vince and his agents) still have some work to do with
Puma," Ralph Greene, Nike's global director of basketball, was quoted as saying
by the Internet site.

Puma and Carter are trying to settle a contentious $13.5 million arbitration
award the footwear and clothing company won after Carter breached his original
deal.

Carter's original agent, the currently indicted Tank Black, got his client a
10-year, $25 million deal with Puma. Carter tried to walk away from the deal in
the middle of last season, saying the Puma shoes he was wearing were ill-
fitting and uncomfortable, but the company won the $13.5 million judgment.

It's unclear exactly how much Puma will get immediately in any deal Carter
reaches with Nike and how much might be in future cash considerations. Carter's
agents and lawyers have been negotiating with Puma and other footwear-clothing
companies since the arbitrator awarded the company the startling sum last month.

Although the value of shoe and clothing deals in the NBA are closely guarded
secrets, people with knowledge of the contracts say the Carter deal would be one
of the most lucrative in the league if it approaches the $2 million a year
value.

It will also allow Carter to finally wear clothing and shoes that bear a logo.
Under terms of the binding arbitration decision, Carter had been unable to wear
the logos of any company that competes with Puma.

Meanwhile, the rift that's apparently developed between Carter and his one- time
teammate Tracy McGrady has caught Carter by surprise.

Disrespected by members of McGrady's family and entourage and the subject of
some thinly veiled jealousy from his former teammate, Carter now thinks he might
have read the situation between him and his cousin wrong all along.

"That's the only surprising thing," Carter said of a magazine story that made it
apparent he and McGrady might not have been as close as Carter thought.

"I felt we were (close) and I read that we weren't.

"I guess that's my fault. I read too deep into the relationship."

Carter refuses to get into a war of words with McGrady, who bolted for the
Orlando Magic.


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             623 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 15, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

GOLF;
Nike Deal For Woods Said to Be The Richest

BYLINE: By CLIFTON BROWN

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 6; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 586 words


Tiger Woods signed a five-year endorsement contract with Nike yesterday that is
believed to be worth $85 million, making it the richest endorsement deal in
sports history.

The exact worth of the contract is hard to estimate because some of the value is
tied to sales and incentives. But having already won three major championships
and nine tournaments this year, Woods has continued his incredible 2000 run with
an unprecedented endorsement deal that will continue his strong relationship
with Nike. Woods has his own Nike line of clothing and shoes, he switched to a
Nike golf ball in May, and he appears regularly in Nike commercials. Woods's
current five-year, $40 million deal with Nike expires in September 2001.

The new deal, which runs through September 2006, will begin when his current
deal expires.

Bob Wood, the president of Nike Golf, refused to reveal specifics of the deal,
but he was elated that an agreement had been reached.

"The final details were worked out about 90 minutes ago," Wood said last night
from his office in Beaverton, Ore.

"We've been negotiating for about 18 months, but I.M.G., Nike, and Tiger have
all been in the same ballpark for awhile now," Wood continued. "A lot of people
thought we overpaid for Tiger in his original deal, but we don't feel we
overpaid for him then, and we don't feel we overpaid for him now. We think it's
a fair deal for everybody. He's had a huge impact on Nike and on Nike golf, and
we think that will continue for the next 25 years or more.

"A lot of people have compared Tiger to Michael Jordan, but one thing that makes
them different is that the career of a professional golfer is so much longer
than the career of a basketball player. The earning power of a professional
golfer is far greater over the course of a lifetime. We're looking forward to
extending our relationship with Tiger for the duration of his career, which will
extend for the next 20 to 25 years and beyond."

At 24, Woods has won all four major championships, becoming the youngest player
to complete the career Grand Slam, and he holds the career scoring record in all
majors in relation to par. Television ratings for tournaments increased
dramatically when Woods plays, and his galleries are by far the largest on tour,
attracting record-setting crowds to tournaments.

Woods signed a five-year $30 million endorsement deal with Buick worth $30
million earlier this year, and he has endorsement contracts with several other
companies. Obviously, Woods is financially secure for several lifetimes, but his
father, Earl Woods, said that no business deals would diminish Woods's
intensity.

"For Tiger, it has never been about the money," Earl Woods said yesterday from
his home in Cypress, Calif. "I have a kid who is basically self-motivated, and
for that, I thank the Lord. He doesn't need someone waving dollar signs in front
of his face to get him going. His performance isn't going to drop off just
because he signs a deal, or earns a certain amount of money. Tiger has no
comfort zone when it comes to competition. People don't believe me, but he's
going to get much better. We've only seen the tip of the iceberg."

Nike is considering making golf clubs as well in the future, but Wood said the
company had not made a final decision.

Woods will make his next appearance at the President's Cup in mid-October.
Having already won a record-setting $8.2 million this year, he could become the
first player to reach $10 million in earnings in a single year.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             624 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       July 12, 2000, Wednesday Edition 1

Exclusive designer gear stolen from rep's car could lead to sales on internet

BYLINE: by Andy Lloyd

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 439 words


   THIEVES hit the jackpot when they stole a top designer collection right from
under the noses of sportswear bosses.

Sports clothing giant Nike fears that rogues are already hawking the exclusive
new designs around North East pubs and clubs.

The collection is so rare that Nike sales reps have been mugged for samples.

Trading standards officials fear the garments could fall into the hands of
master fakers and end up being sold on the internet.

Launched

The huge counterfeit market already costs the UK a massive £358 million each
year and costs workers more than 17,500 jobs.

In the latest scam, crooks got away with the £3,500 stash of watches and clothes
from Nike's streetwear range set to be launched next spring.

They broke into the Nike rep's car parked outside his home in Forest Hall
between Saturday night and Sunday morning.

Jonathan Holiday, the 33-year-old outdoor sales specialist, based at Doxford
Park in Sunderland, said: "This isn't run of the mill, off-the-peg stuff. It's
the closest we get to mainstream designer clothes.

"They were in the boot when they got stolen. It must have been only the third or
fourth time I'd ever left my bags in the car overnight.

"Sales reps in London have been mugged for samples - these are the lengths some
people will go to to steal sportswear.

"Most of it wouldn't be available in the stores until next spring. It's from our
All Conditions Gear range, which is pretty rare. We're very selective about
which outlets sell it."

Both Nike and trading standards officers are hoping the designs will be too hard
to copy for counterfeiters, but if the designs are successfully copied, they
could be flogged on the internet.

Dave O'Brien, trading standards manager at Newcastle City Council, said: "The
internet is now one of the biggest marketplaces where people buy and sell stolen
or counterfeit goods.

"This is one of the areas our team is increasingly having to check."

The latest haul includes shirts, shorts, combat trousers and jackets which have
never been on sale and 30 watches, two of which are prototypes.

Copy

PC Colin Summer-scales, of Wallsend Police, said: "We understand this was one of
only four sets in the UK".

Trading standards officers across the region are being notified in a bid to find
the gear.

Mr O'Brien said: "Some counterfeiters often have to wait until the sportswear is
released before they can copy the designs, but this could give them advance
warning for next year. But most bootleggers are only interested in printing a
logo on a cheap T-shirt - this might be too complicated for most".

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INTERNET CHECK - Dave O'Brien

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd


                             625 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 16, 2000, Friday

Football: the advert war

BYLINE: Emma Hall

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 715 words


NEVER before has football been so seductive to the advertiser. Euro 2000 has had
financial injections from no less than 22 official sponsors and suppliers.

Top brands - including Carlsberg, Coca-Cola, McDonald's and adidas - are
battling fiercely for visibility during the tournament. This battle will
intensify and the costs escalate as the new TV football revolution takes hold.
The official backers are not only competing against each other, but against the
hordes of other advertisers who want to grab the attention of some of the
biggest and most captive audiences that television has to offer. Live football
is one of the few TV products that needs to be watched there and then, not at
some later time of the day when the result is known.

For the bigger matches, the price of a prime-time, 30-second television spot has
soared from Pounds 30,000 to Pounds 80,000. Television companies and advertisers
are benefiting from the Euro 2000 commercial bonanza as huge audiences and huge
revenues combine to form a potent money-making opportunity. They will do even
better when the new format kicks in next year.

Take two of the most conspicuous rivals during this tournament, adidas and Nike.
The importance to them of cashing in on the football boom was highlighted at
last week's International Advertising Association Congress when the top
advertising gurus for each brand took the stage for a head-to-head debate.

Tim Delaney (adidas) and Jim Riswold (Nike) agreed that it was not enough to
spend millions on advertising - your ad had to be bigger and better than that of
the opposition. But here the agreement ended.

The two brands have come up with radically different approaches in their ad
campaigns for Euro 2000. Nike's latest commercial is a fierce blockbuster in
which the brand's stars are sent on a mission to retrieve the Geo Motion
football. Special-effects, fireballs and dungeons show that Nike means business.

Adidas has chosen a more accessible approach with an advertisement set in a
deserted Amsterdam square. A thousand footballs are let loose while a hidden
camera films passers-by and top footballers enjoying the subsequent kickabout.

Nike and adidas both focus on sport rather than fashion. Delaney boasts: "Adidas
is a straight-through-the-rock sports brand. What other people do with adidas
equipment is their problem. Adidas is only prepared to talk about sport."

Riswold claims that Nike's approach is more personal: "Our ads talk athlete to
athlete. We work on the principle that it is OK to satisfy your friend and
ignore everybody else."

Sports advertising exploded in the 1980s when Reebok overtook Nike as the No 1
sports brand. Nike retaliated, storming on to our TV screens, closely followed
by adidas. For a while there seemed to be a clear divide between the two. Nike
was upbeat, letting its football stars show off their skills in settings such as
international airports or Hackney Marshes. Adidas was dark: moody
black-and-white footage and Massive Attack's churning music

Nike has taken on the mantle of aggression. Tony Barry, from Nike's agency
Wieden & Kennedy, says: "Adidas has successfully muddied the water. Their latest
ad could be for Nike." Insiders at Wieden & Kennedy admit that adidas's latest
ad has stolen a march on Nike in the Euro 2000 battle. Adidas has come up with a
fresh approach, while Nike's "mission" commercial is a tired hybrid of two of
its earlier, more successful ads - the gladiatorial football match of "good
versus evil" and the popular airport ad featuring Brazilian football stars.

The challenge to come up with ever-more imaginative ad campaigns has pushed the
stars to greater prominence. But it is getting harder to impress an audience,
even with coachloads of top athletes at your disposal.

"There was a time when it was amazing to see all the players together in one
ad," says Barry. "Now the top players of the world are regularly seen together
on TV playing in the (European) Champions' League, so the advertising has to go
even further."

All this advertising clutter means that Nike and adidas have to work harder than
ever to make themselves heard. And in the battle for sporting supremacy,
advertising creativity is the only way to win the game.


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited


                             629 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 15, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WOODS, NIKE SIGN DEAL ENDORSEMENT CONTRACT WORTH $100 MILLION

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 372 words


Tiger Woods has signed a five-year endorsement contract extension with Nike, a
company spokesman said Thursday.

Those close to the negotiations declined to discuss the financial terms of the
contract, but the Associated Press cites "a source close to the negotiations"
saying it is for $100 million and the largest contract in sports marketing
history.

Nike Golf President Bob Wood said the only formality left in the yearlong
negotiation process is receiving the signed contract in his office. He said he
expects to receive it today.

"The negotiating has been done for several weeks now," Wood said. "The only
thing left is the logistics of physically having the contract here."

Mark Steinberg, Woods' agent at IMG, said the contract has not yet been signed,
but said the negotiations are complete and the signature is a mere formality.

"All of the deal points are in place," Steinberg said. "There are very few times
in a player or an endorser's life that both truly feel they got what they
deserved. But in this case they do. I would venture to say that Tiger is very
happy."

The deal, which calls for Woods to continue wearing Nike clothes and using Nike
balls, is comparable in length to any deal Michael Jordan had while he was an
active player, Wood said.

Jordan's endorsement contract terms were never made public, but Wood hinted that
Woods' is worth more than anything Jordan made while active.

Earl Woods, Tiger's father, said he did not know the financial details of the
contract, but said if the $100 million speculation is correct, it's worth it.

"It doesn't surprise me at all," Earl Woods said. "He's worth every bit of it.
And when the next contract comes around, this one will look like chump change
and peanuts compared to that one."

Earl Woods said the same thing in 1996, when, before Tiger hit a shot as a
professional, he raised eyebrows by signing a reported five-year, $40 million
deal with Nike. That deal would have expired in September 2001.

Since then, Woods, now 24, has won 24 PGA Tour events and has won all four major
championships. He holds the scoring record in the Masters, the U.S. Open and the
British Open and shares the mark in the PGA Championship.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Woods
[000915 SP 3D]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             631 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                            January 24, 2000, Monday

They'll be the best Olympics yet, says Nike boss

BYLINE: DAVID LUFF

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 269 words


ONE of the world's most powerful sports powerbrokers yesterday delivered
overwhelming endorsement of Sydney's Games preparations, predicting the 2000
Olympics would be the best yet.

Fresh from a first-hand inspection of the Olympic facilities, Nike president Tom
Clark also promised a few surprises at the Games from the sporting apparel
giant.

Mr Clark predicted scandals engulfing the Olympic movement and SOCOG last year
would fade as September approached.

"I think as we move closer to the Games, the focus will fall on the athletes and
the competition," he said. "People will be looking forward to the performances
of wonderful athletes. They want to taste the spirit of the Games."

Mr Clark undertook ground and aerial tours of the Homebush site yesterday and
came away impressed with the competition arenas.

"It's fantastic. It looks to me as if they have done a tremendous job with the
facilities. It's great for the athletes," he said.

The Nike boss, who has attended all the summer Olympic Games since Los Angeles
in 1984, predicted Sydney would be remembered as the host of the best Games yet:
"Without a doubt. I can't wait."

His remarks echo the view of IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch, who offered a
similar assessment earlier this month.

The famous Nike swoosh is set to be one of the most recognisable images during
the Games after the corporate heavyweight tied up a deal as an official sponsor
last year, replacing rival brand Reebok. It will outfit the Australian Olympic
and Paralympic teams.

"We ... look forward to contributing to the event," Mr Clark said.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             632 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                         September 27, 2000, Wednesday

A bodysuit blow for rivals

BYLINE: Michael McGuire

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 563 words


CATHY Freeman's decision to race in full bodysuit was a psychological
masterstroke, her coach Peter Fortune said yesterday, while the suit's maker
will see it as a face-saver and a huge commercial bonus.

Freeman had worn the regulation team-issue two-piece outfit during the opening
three rounds of her 400m, before changing into the Nike bodysuit for the final.

"I though it was a bit of a masterstroke, the suit," Fortune said.

"From my point of view she looked special down there. Everyone else was boom,
boom, boom -- and then there was the phantom in lane six.

"I don't know whether it really affected the other girls, but it made her look a
bit special."

It first crossed Freeman's mind last month at Gateshead in England, but until
she arrived at the Olympic Stadium late Monday afternoon she told no one she was
going to wear the bodysuit.

Freeman did her sponsor proud. After rumours of discontent within Nike when star
US sprinter Marion Jones chose not to wear her bodysuit during her 100m final on
Saturday night, and the subsequent drugs scandal over Jones's husband CJ Hunter,
Freeman brought the sportswear company some much-needed kudos.

Nike has spent tens of millions of dollars and many years developing the suit,
so to have it left in the locker room at the main event would have been an
embarrassment.

It has so far failed to win over the athletic community in the way the
neck-to-ankle equivalent in swimming has, although Nike will be counting on the
Freeman endorsement to change perceptions.

"I actually believe in the product," Freeman said yesterday. "I actually believe
in the Nike Swiftsuit. I just thought it would be an advantage to my
performance."

The suit is designed to give the runner an aerodynamic edge. It is made up of
five different fabrics, which are designed for different parts of the body,
which move at different speeds during a race.

Freeman first used it in race conditions in appalling weather at the August
meeting in Gateshead and was reportedly pleased with the feel and performance.

Nike spokeswoman Kathryn Reith said yesterday Freeman's decision to wear the
suit was her own. Reith also said Nike expected the suit to become regular
running equipment in the future, but that it needed a pioneer to show how it
worked.

She denied that Freeman had been offered any financial inducement to wear the
suit on Monday night.

However, Nike was quick to capitalise on the Freeman victory, erecting a stream
of posters around the Sydney CBD featuring Freeman in the bodysuit. The extra
ads were an extension of Nike's marketing campaign which has been running for
about two weeks featuring Freeman and Jones.

But Nike was not the only sponsor delighted with Freeman breaking convention.
Qantas would have been delighted with Freeman's subliminal plug for the airline
at a press conference on Monday night.

"All I know is that I've made a lot of people happy from all kinds of
backgrounds who call Australia home and I'm happy."

It's a variation on the "I still call Australia home" theme, which Qantas has
used for years in its television commercials and one that has obviously sunk
into the Freeman psyche.

Freeman is expected to don the suit again during the 200m, which starts today.

American superstar Marion Jones also wore a bodysuit once during the opening
rounds of the 100m.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             633 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                         September 27, 2000, Wednesday

A bodysuit blow for rivals

BYLINE: Michael McGuire

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 563 words


CATHY Freeman's decision to race in full bodysuit was a psychological
masterstroke, her coach Peter Fortune said yesterday, while the suit's maker
will see it as a face-saver and a huge commercial bonus.

Freeman had worn the regulation team-issue two-piece outfit during the opening
three rounds of her 400m, before changing into the Nike bodysuit for the final.

"I though it was a bit of a masterstroke, the suit," Fortune said.

"From my point of view she looked special down there. Everyone else was boom,
boom, boom -- and then there was the phantom in lane six.

"I don't know whether it really affected the other girls, but it made her look a
bit special."

It first crossed Freeman's mind last month at Gateshead in England, but until
she arrived at the Olympic Stadium late Monday afternoon she told no one she was
going to wear the bodysuit.

Freeman did her sponsor proud. After rumours of discontent within Nike when star
US sprinter Marion Jones chose not to wear her bodysuit during her 100m final on
Saturday night, and the subsequent drugs scandal over Jones's husband CJ Hunter,
Freeman brought the sportswear company some much-needed kudos.

Nike has spent tens of millions of dollars and many years developing the suit,
so to have it left in the locker room at the main event would have been an
embarrassment.

It has so far failed to win over the athletic community in the way the
neck-to-ankle equivalent in swimming has, although Nike will be counting on the
Freeman endorsement to change perceptions.

"I actually believe in the product," Freeman said yesterday. "I actually believe
in the Nike Swiftsuit. I just thought it would be an advantage to my
performance."

The suit is designed to give the runner an aerodynamic edge. It is made up of
five different fabrics, which are designed for different parts of the body,
which move at different speeds during a race.

Freeman first used it in race conditions in appalling weather at the August
meeting in Gateshead and was reportedly pleased with the feel and performance.

Nike spokeswoman Kathryn Reith said yesterday Freeman's decision to wear the
suit was her own. Reith also said Nike expected the suit to become regular
running equipment in the future, but that it needed a pioneer to show how it
worked.

She denied that Freeman had been offered any financial inducement to wear the
suit on Monday night.

However, Nike was quick to capitalise on the Freeman victory, erecting a stream
of posters around the Sydney CBD featuring Freeman in the bodysuit. The extra
ads were an extension of Nike's marketing campaign which has been running for
about two weeks featuring Freeman and Jones.

But Nike was not the only sponsor delighted with Freeman breaking convention.
Qantas would have been delighted with Freeman's subliminal plug for the airline
at a press conference on Monday night.

"All I know is that I've made a lot of people happy from all kinds of
backgrounds who call Australia home and I'm happy."

It's a variation on the "I still call Australia home" theme, which Qantas has
used for years in its television commercials and one that has obviously sunk
into the Freeman psyche.

Freeman is expected to don the suit again during the 200m, which starts today.

American superstar Marion Jones also wore a bodysuit once during the opening
rounds of the 100m.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             634 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 6, 2000, Wednesday

FOOTBALL: JUST DO IT, FERGIE - NIKE WANT ALEX TO JOIN UP WITH THEIR DREAM TEAM

BYLINE: Alan Nixon

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 257 words


SIR ALEX Ferguson is being head-hunted by sportswear giants Nike to become their
football ambassador - on a massive contract.

Talks between the Manchester United boss and the American-based company are at
an advanced stage and Ferguson may sign a deal shortly.

Ferguson has been targeted by the firm as the ideal man to front their push for
top football contracts with clubs and players worldwide. He revealed he is
considering one highly-lucrative job offer to United shareholders after being
pursued by dozens of high-profile companies.

He said: "I've got a lot of offers already. One of them is really staggering.

"It would be a four-year contract for a huge amount of money and would involve a
lot of travelling."

The salary being discussed is around pounds 1million-a-year on a four-year
contract with VIP expenses, and the possibilities of bonuses are endless.

And Nike may even be willing to offer Ferguson the job on a 'part-time' basis,
leaving him to keep other interests in football and horse racing.

Ferguson is still intent on retiring from Old Trafford when his present contract
runs out in two years.

As well as revealing aspects about his own future Ferguson explained how United
plan to tempt the game's best players by offering shares in the club.

They plan to introduce a share saver scheme in an effort to counter the
incredible wages available in Italy and Spain.Instead of paying players pounds
100,000-a-week they could buy shares in the world's richest club at a special
rate.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FERGUSON: Open to offers

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             638 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                             July 18, 2000, Tuesday

Pressure produces a naive recruit

BYLINE: Piers Akerman

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 734 words


OLYMPIC hopeful Cathy Freeman was roasted last month by some Aboriginal
activists for toying with the word "sorry" in an advertisement for the
sportswear giant Nike.

The pressure applied by those members of the Aboriginal community paid off on
Sunday when, in an interview with a British newspaper, Freeman turned on the
current Australian Government and accused it of being responsible for separating
her grandmother from her great-grandparents.

Freeman is not the first to apply such bizarre X-File dimensions to the blame
game. Crossing time zones and investing current political personalities with the
spectral identities and philosophies of long-dead politicians and public
servants is par for the course among those in the Sorry Industry who do not wish
to fairly acknowledge all aspects of past policies.

Typical of the heat applied to Freeman in June were the remarks of National
Sorry Day Committee chairman Audrey Kinnear who claimed "many Aboriginal people
would be thinking that Cathy is guilty by association" because her sponsor, Nike
, had used the word "sorry" repeatedly in

its commercials.

"By using 'sorry' so many times and in so many ways, they are actually
trivialising what 'sorry' stands for," Ms Kinnear told this newspaper.

"It's not Cathy's fault, but I thought that with all the publicity, nationally
and internationally, they would have been a bit more sensitive about it," she
said.

Nike's commercials showed 20 athletes apologising to their family, friends and
workmates for their obsession with sport.

Most, including runner Steve Moneghetti and footballer James Hird, said "sorry"
in a lighthearted manner for being driven by success.

Teenage runner Georgie Clarke apologises to her school friends for training
instead of walking home with them and embattled spin bowler Shane Warne says
sorry to Dennis, in an apparent reference to breaking Dennis Lillee's
wicket-taking record.

Freeman didn't actually say "sorry", but turned to the camera and said: "Can we
talk about this later?" before running off into

the distance.

Ms Kinnear claimed Nike was trying to exploit the reconciliation process and
that the continuous use of the word "sorry" in Nike's commercials trivialised
the issue of whether the Federal Government should apologise to the stolen
generation.

She might consider that the word "sorry" has not yet been entirely appropriated
by the Black Armband Brigade and that there are many, many people indeed who
manage to utter the expression meaningfully on a daily basis without once
considering its connotations for Aboriginals, Esquimaux or even the Innuit.

Freeman is said to be angered by a denial of the truth about the so-called
Stolen Generation yet it would seem it is precisely the truth that eludes her
appreciation of history.

To be charitable, she is concentrating on her Olympic training.

She can't be expected to have studied the documents regarding the so-called
Stolen Generation, but there is no reason why those presenting her
understandably emotional views should not fairly present the facts as well as
her subjective opinion.

No matter how the statistics are juggled, the record clearly shows that there
was never a "stolen generation". The term is inaccurate but highly emotive and
thus more likely to be seized upon by those more interested in making political
capital than in dealing with disadvantaged people. Just as Freeman's own
heartfelt but misguided words

were yesterday.

Even historian Peter Read, whose work has been credited with giving rise to Sir
Ronald Wilson's painfully flawed Lost Children inquiry, has conceded that his
estimate of 100,000 separations was "misunderstood" and "far too high".

There is no doubt that Cathy Freeman is a great Australian.

Her athletic achievements bring the nation to its feet.

As a runner, she is also a great role model. Her grasp of history and
understanding of policy, however, is at about the same level of her knowledge of
her own business dealings.

And that according to her new business manager and accountant, Alistair Hamblin,
is small indeed.

But, having now bowed to the politics of her Aboriginal critics, let's hope she
will be left alone to prepare herself to run for her nation.

In that field of endeavour, she surely carries the best wishes of

all Australians, regardless of colour or creed.

piers@columnist.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             640 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                             June 20, 2000, Tuesday

Shoe ad a sorry affair for Cathy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 245 words


CATHY Freeman today came under fire for her involvement in an athletic shoe
advertisement that prominently features the word sorry.

The ad features several athletes looking at the camera as the word sorry appears
on screen.

Towards the end, Aboriginal star Freeman turns around as she is running,
mouthing the words: "Can we talk about this later?"

Audrey Kinnear, co-chairwoman of the National Sorry Day Committee, said the Nike
ad trivialised the importance of the word, which is closely associated with
Aboriginal reconciliation.

"If viewers around the nation feel like I do, and like many other Aboriginal
people would be feeling, then Cathy is guilty by association," Ms Kinnear said.

"We all love Cathy and I think one of the hardest things, and the most painful
things, is when our own people are used against us."

Nike should have made Freeman aware of the implications of the ad, she said.

"By using sorry in so many ways and so many times, they are actually
trivialising what sorry stands for."

Nike marketing director Brent Scamshaw denied the accusation.

"Everybody in Australia right now wants a piece of Cathy Freeman, whether it be
media calls, whether it be Cathy just trying to live her life on a day-to-day
basis," he said.

"I guess we shot the commercial with that insight in mind and at the end of the
day Cathy's sole focus is on performing in Sydney 2000.

"I think the only coincidence is the use of the word sorry."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             641 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                January 8, 2000

Nike shirts scare;
 Fears over chemical in football team strip

BYLINE: Tim Moynihan ;Damien Pearse

SECTION: News, Pg.10

LENGTH: 399 words


SPORTS goods manufacturer Nike yesterday insisted there was no evidence that
some of its British-made football shirts were laced with a toxic chemical.

Fears have been raised over the safety of shirts of German side Borussia
Dortmund after a German TV show commissioned lab tests and claimed the shirts
contain a chemical used on the bottom of sea vessels, which is also used to kill
bacteria and quell the stench of excessive sweating.

A Nike spokesman yesterday confirmed the Borussia Dortmund shirts were made in
Britain and Italy. He refused to say where in Britain they were made.

He repeated that initial testing had failed to find any Tributyltin, or TBT.
"Initial research findings suggest that TBT is not used in production of the
garment," he said. Nike also make shirts for Arsenal and Glasgow Rangers, though
not in Britain, he added.

Both clubs reported no concern over their shirts. The Nike spokesman said
Borussia Dortmund shirts were made by sub contractors in Britain which
specialised in manufacturing football shirts.

"Further tests are being carried out and we await the results of those," he
said. "We are consulting outside industry experts and fabric suppliers."

He repeated the company's message to the public - "Don't panic".

And he added: "Small doses of TBT when used in textiles are not normally
dangerous to humans."

A scientist with a German institute for consumer health has said that TBT at
high levels in humans is believed to cause neurological problems, damage the
immune system and harm the liver.

"We don't know how much is in the shirts, so we can't analyse the risks,"
Juergen Kundke said.

"We knew that the substance was still used in coatings for ships, but it
shouldn't be in textiles that people wear."

Three German department store chains have withdrawn the 47 yellow and black
shirts, as a precaution.

British and Dutch tests have shown that TBT can cause mutations in marine
snails, and there have been calls for its global ban.

Nike has said it does not appear British retailers are following their German
counterparts by withdrawing the kit.

The spokesman said it makes Arsenal and Glasgow Rangers shirts, but not in this
country.

An Arsenal spokeswoman said: "We have discussed the matter with Nike and at the
present time have no cause to recall any replica shirts from our club shops."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press


                             642 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                         September 27, 2000, Wednesday

Cathy: just a normal superstar

BYLINE: Staff reporters

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 340 words


CATHY Freeman, the runner who gave Australia its greatest sporting thrill on
Monday night, yesterday pledged to return to a normal life.

But armed with a gold medal, Freeman has already moved another step away from
the normality she craves -- and the marketing and political spotlights
intensified on her yesterday.

Within hours of her winning the 400m grand final at the Olympic Games, 220
billboards in Sydney had been altered by sportswear manufacturer Nike to reflect
its association with the nation's latest sports superstar.

"Cathy Freeman, official sponsor of joy to the Sydney 2000 Olympics," the new
posters declared across a picture of the triumphant runner.

The billboards were to be followed by new Nike television advertisements on the
Seven network last night.

Freeman boosted her sponsor's campaign by wearing a Nike suit in Monday night's
run. Yesterday, though, she was talking about a life beyond athletics.

"I don't know if it gets better than this," she said.

One thing she craves is to be out of the limelight.

"In my simple world, I wake up in the morning and have breakfast and I clean my
teeth, life is very normal when I'm on my own. The only thing that will change
after this is the way the public treats me, I think.

"I know my family sure won't, though. Everything will settle down after this
euphoria has gone and I'll just be a family member."

Federal Opposition Leader Kim Beazley used the biggest event in Australian sport
to push one of the biggest issues in Australian society, describing her Olympic
victory as "400 metres of national reconciliation".

ATSIC chairman Geoff Clark said her popular win would increase pressure on Prime
Minister John Howard to apologise to Aborigines.

But the Prime Minister pointedly avoided being drawn on any link between Freeman
and reconciliation.

"Look, I think everybody's happy for her and very happy for what it represents,"
Mr Howard said.

"She's a role model to young Australians, Aboriginal Australians and other
Australians."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             643 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                         September 27, 2000, Wednesday

Cathy: just a normal superstar

BYLINE: Staff reporters

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 340 words


CATHY Freeman, the runner who gave Australia its greatest sporting thrill on
Monday night, yesterday pledged to return to a normal life.

But armed with a gold medal, Freeman has already moved another step away from
the normality she craves -- and the marketing and political spotlights
intensified on her yesterday.

Within hours of her winning the 400m grand final at the Olympic Games, 220
billboards in Sydney had been altered by sportswear manufacturer Nike to reflect
its association with the nation's latest sports superstar.

"Cathy Freeman, official sponsor of joy to the Sydney 2000 Olympics," the new
posters declared across a picture of the triumphant runner.

The billboards were to be followed by new Nike television advertisements on the
Seven network last night.

Freeman boosted her sponsor's campaign by wearing a Nike suit in Monday night's
run. Yesterday, though, she was talking about a life beyond athletics.

"I don't know if it gets better than this," she said.

One thing she craves is to be out of the limelight.

"In my simple world, I wake up in the morning and have breakfast and I clean my
teeth, life is very normal when I'm on my own. The only thing that will change
after this is the way the public treats me, I think.

"I know my family sure won't, though. Everything will settle down after this
euphoria has gone and I'll just be a family member."

Federal Opposition Leader Kim Beazley used the biggest event in Australian sport
to push one of the biggest issues in Australian society, describing her Olympic
victory as "400 metres of national reconciliation".

ATSIC chairman Geoff Clark said her popular win would increase pressure on Prime
Minister John Howard to apologise to Aborigines.

But the Prime Minister pointedly avoided being drawn on any link between Freeman
and reconciliation.

"Look, I think everybody's happy for her and very happy for what it represents,"
Mr Howard said.

"She's a role model to young Australians, Aboriginal Australians and other
Australians."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             645 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                       May 30, 2000 Tuesday Final Edition

Jordan still king: 'We lost the very best marketing tool that we could ever have
had: Michael slam-dunking'

SOURCE: Knight-Ridder

SECTION: Sports; Pg. A43

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: DALLAS

DALLAS -- As Larry Miller settled into his new job at Nike, he discovered
selling Michael Jordan shoes and apparel would be much tougher than he'd
imagined.

In June 1998, when Miller arrived on the scene, the basketball superstar was
making more money than any other athlete in corporate endorsements. Six months
later, Jordan retired from the Chicago Bulls.

"We lost the very best marketing tool that we could ever have had: Michael
slam-dunking slam-dunking on (ESPN's) SportsCenter every night," Miller said.

Miller, president of Nike's Jordan brand, has spent the last 15 months trying to
pump up the business despite Jordan's defection to the suit-and-tie world.

It's a tricky balancing act: Retain a retired athlete's image of athleticism and
style while keeping the appeal fresh with a new generation of stars.

Nike's launch of the Jordan brand represents a departure for the athletic shoe
business. Stand-alone brands are common in such industries as automobiles and
beer, but sneakers have always been identified as Nikes, Reeboks or Adidas.

"Jordan is a great opportunity to introduce a brand that doesn't carry the Nike
name," said Rick Burton, director of the University of Oregon's Warsaw Center
for Sports Marketing. "Now, a kid can say 'I'm wearing Jordans.' This is going
to allow them to stretch their marketing in new ways."

As a player, Jordan proved to be a marketing juggernaut, pitching Hanes
underwear, Rayovac batteries, MCI WorldCom telephone services, Gatorade sports
drinks and a half-dozen other products.

Last year Jordan decided to stop endorsing products that aren't tied to his
business interests, said his agent, David Falk.

Jordan has been a Nike fixture since he signed with the company in 1984.
Repositioning the Jordan brand involved tweaking the marketing pitch, Miller
said.

"Michael is no longer playing basketball, we know that," he said. "We've got to
go out and add other athletes who are relevant to the consumer."

Jordan and Miller signed a half-dozen athletes they regard as worthy of the
Jordan brand. Dallas Mavericks star Michael Finley joins other players from the
National Basketball Association, such as Ray Allen and Eddie Jones.

Outside basketball, the Jordan brand recruited shortstop Derek Jeter of the New
York Yankees, wide receiver Randy Moss of the Minnesota Vikings and boxer Roy
Jones Jr.

The Jordan brand's first major post-retirement test came a few months ago with
the launch of Air Jordan XV, the latest version of a long line of signature
basketball shoes. Previous Air Jordans were big sellers, so the expectations at
Nike headquarters in Beaverton, Ore., were high.

Although he's only 38, Jordan won't make a comeback. Last year, he bought a
stake in the NBA's Washington Wizards, becoming team president, and he's
involved in other business ventures, including MVP.com, an Internet sporting
goods retailer formed with hockey's Wayne Gretzky and football's John Elway.

Despite the hectic schedule, he remains the chief executive officer of Jordan
brand and consults with Miller at least once a week.

"None of our clothes or shoes hit the market until Michael has a chance to see
it, change it and approve it," Miller said. "He's always going to be in the
picture."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: AP; Advertising's biggest name no longer wants to be a
corporate pitchman and has told sponsors to adopt new campaigns.

TYPE: Business; Sports

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             648 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            January 7, 2000, Friday

TOXIC CHEMICAL FEARS;
 SICK AS A PARROT OVER NIKE SHIRTS

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 286 words


SPORTSWEAR giant Nike has moved to reassure consumers after reports some of its
football shirts were laced with a toxic chemical used in anti-barnacle paint on
ships.

Fears were raised over the safety of the Nike-made shirts of German side
Borussia Dortmund after a German TV show commissioned lab tests on the kit and
reported its findings earlier this week.

The TV show claimed the shirts contain a chemical used on the bottom of sea
vessels, which is also used to kill bacteria and quell the stench of excessive
sweating.

British and Dutch tests have shown that Tributyltin or TBT can cause mutations
in marine snails and there have been calls for its global ban.

At high levels in humans, it is believed to cause neurological problems, damage
the immune system and harm the liver, said Juergen Kundke, a scientist with a
German institute for consumer health.

"We don't know how much is in the shirts, so we can't analyse the risks," he
said.

"We knew that the substance was still used in coatings for ships, but it
shouldn't be in textiles that people wear."

Many German stores have stopped selling the pounds 47 yellow and black shirts
and one is pulling other official team jerseys as a precaution.

But a Nike spokesman urged Britons not to panic and said it was conducting its
own tests on the shirts.

The spokesman said that initial testing failed to detect any TBT in the jerseys,
but further tests were necessary.

He said that it did not appear British retailers were following their German
counterparts by withdrawing the kit.

"Our message is simple - don't panic," the spokesman said.

"We are conducting tests and as such have not withdrawn any of the shirts.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                             652 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 7, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Nike-Made Soccer Jerseys Pulled From German Stores

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 574 words


In what could prove a damaging blow to Nike's image in Germany, leading German
retailers yanked soccer jerseys made by the company from store shelves yesterday
after televised reports that the jerseys contained a potentially harmful
fungicide used on boat hulls.

The reports claimed that the chemical, tributyltin or TBT, had been found in
souvenir jerseys made by Nike with the name and logo of Borussia Dortmund, a
popular professional soccer team.

It is unclear whether the substance was deliberately applied to the jerseys. It
is also unclear whether it was found in the fibers of the jerseys or the
decorations.

A Nike spokesman said the company was testing the jerseys at labs in Germany and
in the United States, and in the meantime was not recalling the jerseys from its
own stores.

"There's nothing conclusive to show that there is a health risk to the public,"
said the spokesman, Vada Manager. "But obviously, consumer concern is important
to us. We want to conduct the tests to ensure that there is no chemical agent in
the jerseys that can be a risk to the public." He said the tests should be
completed within the next several days.

Tributyltin is used to kill bacteria in textiles and is an ingredient in paint
used on ships' hulls to discourage barnacle growth. It is strongly irritating to
skin and can cause burns. At high levels, it can cause nerve and liver problems.

The report was shown on Tuesday night on a business news show called "Plus
Minus," in which reporters tested randomly chosen consumer products, including
carpet samples and ski socks, for traces of chemicals.

German television yesterday reported that sporting-goods chains, including
Karstadt and Kaufhof, two of the biggest, had removed the Borussia Dortmund
jerseys made by Nike from their stores. Other souvenir jerseys were also
removed, including those of FC Kaiserslauten and Hertha BSC, said a spokesman
for Intersport Deutschland, a buyers' cooperative that represents 1,600
retailers.

In addition, one German newspaper reported yesterday that the Green Party had
called on the Bavarian parliament to conduct its own investigation into the
presence of tributyltin in clothing and other textiles.

Relations are already tense between Nike and big sporting-goods retailers like
Karstadt, said Bob Carr, the editor of SGB's Inside Sporting Goods, a trade
publication in New York. The problem is that Nike functions as both manufacturer
and retailer, opening up big stores like the Berlin Niketown that companies like
Karstadt fear will undercut them on prices. "The German trade does not like
manufacturers in the retail business," Mr. Carr said.

In addition, Nike has feuded with the German stores over pricing, trying to
avoid paying a 3 percent premium on orders that is used by the stores for
collective advertising and marketing. "We wanted to make sure the consumer got
the best value, and it affected the amount of raw profit they would make," Mr.
Manager said.

One analyst said there would be little effect on Nike. "It's really a small part
of the business," said Jennifer E. Black, president of Black & Company, an
investment firm in Portland, Ore. "Nike has been doing extremely well in
Germany. I don't see this as being an issue." In a conference call with
investors last month, she added, the company said it was "working our way
through some issues" in Germany but was generally upbeat about its prospects.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two Borussia Dortmund players, Andreas Moeller, left, and Dede,
celebrated after Moeller scored the winning goal in a game in August. (Reuters)



                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             653 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             June 22, 2000 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

Freeman runs into a sorry mess;
COMMENT

BYLINE: LOUISE EVANS

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 578 words


I'm sorry. I saw Nike's television advertisement featuring a fleeting Cathy
Freeman spinning her "can we talk about this later?" line and recognised it as a
clever play on a highly emotive, in-vogue word.

Much in the same vein as Benetton uses sensitive social issues to dress shop
windows and sell jumpers, Nike tapped into the national sorry campaign, added a
commercial twist and produced a timely, if controversial ad.

Not that there's anything wrong with being commercially savvy, but selling
sports shoes and clothes on the back of the reconciliation campaign has upset
Aboriginal activists who are disappointed Freeman is involved and want the ad
withdrawn.

Critics say the commercial, which features a wide array of athletes saying sorry
for much lesser sins than stealing a generation of Aboriginal children is
insensitive, exploitive and opportunistic.

It has also dropped Freeman into yet another stink. Nike is Freeman's biggest
sponsor, backing her to the tune of a minimum $500,000 annually, rising to
$700,000 depending on exchange and success rates.

Wherever Freeman turns at the moment she is surrounded by Nike, at home, on the
track, in court. But while being omnipresent, Nike is also becoming omnipotent.

The 27-year-old left Australia in May to escape the pressure of being
Australia's only gold medal favourite in track and field.

Since her timely exit, however, she's attracted more publicity than if she had
been quietly training at Olympic Park in Melbourne and going home to her new
house in Kew.

At her side is husband Sandy Bodeck-er, an American Nike executive who's job is
concentrated more on tending the needs of his very talented wife than the
profits of a multinational sports company.

Her new publicist as of May 10, Royce Sport, is an arm of Royce Communications,
which has Nike as a client.

In court, where she is being sued by her former manger, Nick Bideau, and his
Melbourne International Track Club for alleged breach of contract, Nike is
involved with both parties in the proceedings.

While Nike backs Freeman it also helps sustain the MITC with $250,000 annually.
That money gives the company access to a raft of Freeman's contemporaries plus a
link to the next generation.

The club is in court fighting to maintain that sponsorship after Freeman
appointed another manager and requested her sponsors send monies directly to
her, ie not via the MITC.

The latest on the court case is that there is no latest since the judge deferred
the matter in the Victorian Supreme Court last Friday and told both parties to
start talking in private.

According to MITC, it has continued to request the initiation of out-of-court
negotiations with Freeman's legal advisers but has received no response.

Then, four days after having her personal details revealed in court, Freeman was
again in the headlines, this time because she's upset some by featuring in
Nike's ad.

Freeman left Australia to seek peace and quiet before the Olympics, not to
become the centre of court disputes and advertising campaigns.

Elsewhere, Nike is negotiating with Athletics Australia whether to continue
supplying the national team with uniforms plus a cash element to support junior
development after its contract expires at the end of the year.

It is also outfitting the Olympic team, which means that Freeman will be flying
the company colours when she lines up for that gold medal Australia has already
banked.

If she ends up with anything less, it will be Nike who'll be sorry.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             655 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                    August 23, 2000 Wednesday Final Edition

Woods doesn't use golf balls he endorses: Nike admits Tiger's Tour Accuracy
balls not the same as ones sold to public

SOURCE: AP

SECTION: Sports; Pg. D4

LENGTH: 575 words

DATELINE: San Francisco

Tiger Woods endorses Nike Tour Accuracy golf balls in TV and magazine ads, but
he really plays with custom-made balls unavailable to everyday duffers, Nike
acknowledged Tuesday after being sued in federal court.

Nike Inc. said the balls Woods uses for his monster swings that produce
300-plus-yard drives have a slightly harder inner and outer core than the balls
sold to the public.

"Those two elements are slightly firmer than the marketed ball," said Mike
Kelly, marketing director for Nike Golf.

Kelly said it's common practice in the golfing world to sell the public
different products than what the pros really use.

"It's an industry practice to make minor specification changes to golf products:
irons, putters and golf balls for tour players," Kelly said. "Slight
specification and modifications need to be made to their equipment for their
game."

But other leading names in golf say their customers get exactly what their pros
endorse.

Joe Gomes, a spokesperson for Titleist of Fairhaven, Mass., said its players use
the same products they advertise. And if a player uses a "tweaked" version of a
club, he said, a consumer could special order it.

"We are very particular about our advertisements," said Gomes. "We don't make
any claims that cannot be substantiated in both golf balls and clubs."

Callaway Golf of Carlsbad, Calif., said if one of its golf pros says he uses a
certain club, that identical club is available retail. Spokesperson Larry Dorman
did say, however, that in February, one of its golf balls had a different number
of dimples on it than the ones its pros used.

That occurred, he said, because Callaway was awaiting approval of the new ball
by the U.S. Golfing Association, so the company's pros were briefly forbidden
from using it in tournaments.

"We used a prototype with a different number of dimples," Dorman said. "As a
result, for a very short period of time, there was a little bit of a lapse from
what was being marketed. We were very up front about it."

Woods's agent, Mark Steinberg, did not immediately return a call requesting
comment on the lawsuit.

In the suit filed Tuesday in U.S. district court in San Francisco, a nonprofit
group called Public Remedies Inc. claimed Nike, based in Beaverton, Ore., was
engaging in unfair business practices. It asks that Nike's "ill-gotten gains" be
restored to the public.

"Tiger Woods does not play the Nike Tour Accuracy golf ball, but instead plays
one with a different composition and performance characteristics specially made
for him ... and not available to the general public," the suit said.

The group did not return repeated calls for comment.

Woods officially switched to the Nike Tour Accuracy ball before the U.S. Open,
the first of his three major championships this year. The move officially ended
a marketing conflict between Woods' top two golf sponsors -- Nike and Titleist
-- that began last year when Nike entered the ball market.

Titleist argued that Nike was using Woods to promote golf balls because of two
commercials -- one that showed Woods bouncing a ball off his wedge, and another
that showed hackers on the range belting 300-yard drives as soon as Woods showed
up.

Titleist contemplated a lawsuit, but instead reworked Woods' deal so he was paid
only when he used Titleist equipment in tournaments. Titleist also gave up its
right to have its logo on his bag and to use Woods in advertisements. #

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colour Photo: AP; Tiger Woods lines up his ball before putting in
Germany last year.

TYPE: Business; Sports

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             656 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                            June 21, 2000, Wednesday

Aboriginal protest at Freeman ad

BYLINE: TOM SALOM

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 474 words


SPORTSWEAR giant Nike has come under fire for using Aboriginal runner Cathy
Freeman in a TV commercial featuring the word "sorry" 15 times.

Freeman plays only a minor role in the commercial, but the timing of its release
has stung Aboriginal activists.

National Sorry Day Committee chairman Audrey Kinnear claimed Nike was trying to
exploit the reconciliation process.

Ms Kinnear said the continuous use of the word "sorry" trivialised the issue of
whether the Federal Government should apologise to the stolen generation of
Aborigines.

"Why select a word that is current, politically and nationally?" she said.

"By using sorry so many times and in so many ways, they are actually
trivialising what sorry stands for."

Nike has used 20, mainly Olympic, athletes who apologise to their family,
friends and workmates for an obsession with sport.

Most, including runner Steve Moneghetti and footballer James Hird, say sorry in
a light-hearted manner for being driven by success.

Teenage runner Georgie Clarke apologises to her school friends for training
instead of walking home with them.

Embattled spin bowler Shane Warne says sorry to Dennis, in an apparent reference
to breaking Dennis Lillee's wicket-taking record.

The commercial also features a weightlifter apologising for eating all the eggs
in the fridge.

Freeman doesn't actually say sorry, but turns to the camera and says, "Can we
talk about this later?" before running off into the distance.

Nike Olympics spokeswoman Megan Ryan said the timing of the "sorry" commercial
was purely coincidental.

Ms Ryan said Nike was trying to show how athletes had to apologise to a lot of
people they did not have time for during Olympic preparations.

"While we understand there is some sensitivity and contention around the sorry
issue, it was more a behind-the-scenes look at athletes who make no apologies
for the fact that they have to say sorry to a lot of people.

"Sorry is word used by people every day.

"It's a coincidence that the whole reconciliation issue has come up here."

Ms Ryan said the insight into Freeman was more about the fact that everybody
wanted "a piece of Cathy" in the lead-up to Sydney 2000.

"It's not in reference to the reconciliation issue."

But Ms Kinnear said Aborigines were offended that Freeman was being "used" to
capitalise on the reconciliation debate.

"I thought that with all the publicity, nationally and internationally, they
would have been a bit more sensitive about it," she said.

Ms Kinnear said she did not blame Freeman.

"It's not Cathy's fault, but many Aboriginal people would be thinking that Cathy
is guilty by association."

Freeman's Olympic preparations were disrupted last week when her former lover
and manager took court action against the world champion for alleged breach of
contract.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             657 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The New Zealand Herald

                             July 27, 2000 Thursday

UN seen as selling 'bluewash' to corporate giants

SECTION: NEWS; World

LENGTH: 482 words


NEW YORK - United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan has been accused of
offering Nike, Royal Dutch Shell and other global giants the right to use the UN
emblem to "bluewash" their images.

Chief executives of 50 corporates have been invited by Annan to come to UN
headquarters in New York today to sign up for a "partnership" scheme to end
Third World sweatshops and environmental abuses.

Among those invited are Nike, Shell, and the mining giant Rio Tinto, all accused
in the past of human rights violations.

The scheme will commit them to upholding nine key principles including the
rights of workers to unionise, the elimination of child labour and the
development of environmentally friendly technologies.

But "the global compact" plan has provoked fury among aid and environmental
agencies who say it will allow companies, notorious for human rights violations,
to use the UN emblem to give their activities a branding makeover, while doing
nothing of substance to clean up their activities.

"It allows companies like Nike, the global symbol of sweatshops, to wrap
themselves in the UN flag without any binding commitment to change," said Joshua
Karliner, executive director of the San Francisco-based corporate monitoring
group Transnational Resource and Action.

"This will enhance the Nike brand name and could be a powerful marketing tool."

The same companies taking part in Annan's initiative are at the same time
lobbying furiously, said Karliner, to undermine a letter to the
Secretary-General signed by 20 non-governmental agencies that said the
initiative implied UN official policy was to support corporate-driven
globalisation.

It said that the voluntary nature of the deal would let corporations "wrap
themselves in the flag of the UN to 'bluewash' their public image while at the
same time avoiding significant changes to their behaviour."

The scheme will require companies to post on a UN website their actions to end
sweatshop conditions and prevent environmental degradation.

However, they will be under no obligation to observe a code of conduct or a set
of minimum standards.

Critics say the plan will undermine existing efforts by other UN agencies to
force Governments to hold companies accountable to existing UN conventions.

John Ruggie, chief adviser to Annan, defended the initiative, saying it
reflected concern in the UN at the unfettered growth of globalisation.

"This is an experiment, it is a very unusual initiative which brings all sides
of the debate together on a common platform but I would be very surprised if the
companies involved tried to pull the wool over our eyes."

He said the initiative was aimed at launching a dialogue accompanied by
practical actions, rather than a binding code of conduct that would take years
to negotiate.

"It's about making the world a better place."

- http://www.independent.co.uk INDEPENDENT

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

          Copyright 2000 The New Zealand Herald.  All Rights Reserved.


                             658 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             March 14, 2000 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

SOCOG woes dull sponsors' gloss

BYLINE: Luke Collins

SECTION: MARKETING; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 457 words


Awareness of many key Sydney Olympic Games sponsors has fallen in the past year,
although the profile of global sporting giant Nike has rocketed following its
last-minute replacement of Reebok as the Australian team's official outfitter.

According to the 13th annual Sweeney Sports Report, public awareness of Olympic
sponsors Telstra, Westpac, Ansett, Coca-Cola and Holden all fell in 1999.
Sweeney Sports director Mr Martin Hirons attributed the falls to a deliberate
slowing of marketing activity after recent Olympic controversies and ahead of a
boom later this year, when sponsors' marketing efforts are expected to intensify
.

"Clearly the marketing activities associated with the sponsorships have been
fairly low key," Mr Hirons told The Australian Financial Review. "The
expenditure required to maintain that is significant, and it does take a huge
amount of resources. In hindsight I would say it was a strategic decision, but
clearly one I think was necessitated."

The report showed Nike's awareness among the public as an Olympic sponsor has
jumped from 2 per cent a year ago to almost double that of the previous leader,
Telstra. In order of awareness, the top Olympic sponsors were Nike, Telstra,
McDonald's, AMP, Ansett and Westpac.

While awareness of individual sponsors was generally weaker, the Sweeney Sports
Report showed the number of mainland Australia residents able to name at least
one Olympic sponsor had risen from 58 per cent to 64 per cent, more than double
the number three years ago.

But the controversies which have dogged SOCOG appear to be taking a toll on the
public's perception of the event's key backers. About 38 per cent of those
surveyed had a less favourable attitude towards sponsors, with a similar
proportion indicating the troubles had dissuaded them from buying tickets.

Mr Hirons attributed the overall increase in awareness almost solely to Nike,
which in December replaced Reebok as the official clothing supplier of the
Australian team and has athletes Cathy Freeman and US star Michael Johnson in
its stable.

"That [overall awareness] is particularly attributable to Nike's involvement,"
he said.

Sweeney Sports surveyed 1,500 people in mainland capital cities in January, just
a month after Nike replaced Reebok as a sponsor.

The report also showed swimming is the Olympic sport most Australians are
interested in. Some 86 per cent of those surveyed expressed interest in the
sport, followed by track and field (86 per cent), gymnastics (62 per cent),
tennis (58 per cent) and the marathon (57 per cent).

The opening and closing ceremonies were also of interest, attracting 63 per cent
and 55 per cent respectively. Rowing fell 10 per cent to 38 per cent while
cycling dropped 6 per cent to 49 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2000 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             659 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           The Nikkei Weekly (Japan)

                               September 25, 2000

Sporting-goods makers aim to broaden customer base

LENGTH: 468 words

HIGHLIGHT:
As youth numbers shrink, companies cultivating women, older consumers


Knowing they need to broaden their appeal in order to survive, sporting-goods
makers are expanding lineups of fashionable casual wear for women and products
for light exercise targeted at older customers.

Companies in the field are struggling to cope with a shrinking population of
young people, particularly young men who have been the primary market focus up
to now, as well as a decline in the popularity of participation sports.

Nike Japan Corp. launched what it calls its "women's project" at the end of last
year. Staff members analyze the preferences of female consumers who do not play
sports, focusing on casual wear for young women.

The wholly owned subsidiary of U.S. giant Nike Inc. has greatly expanded its
lineup of women's casual wear to 100 items from 40 in three years, and plans to
introduce a new brand next year.

The firm in February opened its first sales outlet exclusively for women at a
fitness club in Tokyo. Nike hopes to forge a strong brand image among women by
displaying casual wear along with sports shirts and shoes.

Light exercise

Asics Corp. is also trying to adapt to the shifting market currents. "We are
actively marketing merchandise for light exercise to take advantage of growing
health awareness among middle-aged and older people," said Mitsuhiro Kimura,
manager of Asics' athletic sportswear division.

Though the number of people taking part in organized sports is declining, more
middle-aged and older people are enjoying light exercise, such as walking. Aware
of this trend, Asics inaugurated its Fitness Walking Project three years ago to
emphasize the development of sports shoes for older people.

The Kobe-based firm is also concentrating more on women's swimsuits. It plans to
release a new item in its Como Diana line by the end of September. With a
30cm-long zipper down the center, the new swimsuit is easy to put on and take
off, company officials said. It has been designated a universal fashion product,
which means it can be easily used by senior citizens and people with physical
disabilities.

Reebok Japan Inc. also plans to start marketing a new brand next year targeting
women. The Kawasaki-based subsidiary of Reebok International Ltd. of the U.S.
plans to release some 45 items under the Comfort Premium label.

The number of people who play such games as baseball and soccer is on the
decline, according to a recent government study. Although the number of joggers
is increasing, the sporting-goods market has been on a losing streak since
hitting a 1996 peak at some 2.6 trillion yen. Sales slid to 2.3 trillion yen
last year.

Despite strong efforts by sporting-goods makers to expand the market, "women and
older customers do not visit sporting-goods sales counters as frequently as
young men," explained Asics' Kimura.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc.


                             660 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  July 2, 2000

Fashion plus: Stop press: Perfect match

BYLINE: Edited by Gaelle Paul

SECTION: Observer Life Pages, Pg. 37

LENGTH: 206 words


Stop press

It can be difficult finding a pair of shoes that fit perfectly, sometimes half
sizes are not available and it's even more annoying when one foot is bigger than
the other. But help is at hand. Nike has launched a lightweight shoe and a
radicla shoe-size concept. Tha Air Presto comes in only six sizes, ranging from
XXS to XL, and is a running shoe that adjusts to the size of your foot so it
fits like a sock. As you put the Air Presto on, the mesh around the body of the
shoe stretches to fit perfectly and the support cage around the mid-foot holds
the foot in place once the laces are tightened. They are as comfortable as
slippers and buying them is a little like choosing a T-shirt - 'Medium, please'
- but, hey presto, it's a made-to-measure shoe. The Nike Air Presto, pounds 70,
comes in a wide range of colours and is available from all major sports
retailers, including Nike Town, Oxford Circus, London W1 (020 7612 0800).

Perfect match

If wering trainers is not your style, a designer alternative could be right up
your street. Prada's (020 7629 0666) metallic shoes, pounds 155, are stylish and
sporty. Bertie (020 7380 3800) has its own version, too, at a third of the price
- pounds 50.


LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             663 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                    August 30, 2000 Wednesday Final Edition

Vince jumps to Nike

SOURCE: The Canadian Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. E08

LENGTH: 322 words


Vince Carter's shoe problems with Puma appear to be over.

The Toronto Raptors superstar has signed a six-year endorsement contract worth
$30 million US with Nike, according to a report on HoopsTV.com.

Signing Carter would be a major coup for Nike, giving the shoe giant perhaps the
NBA's most popular player since Michael Jordan.

The report said between $18 and $20 million US of the $30 million US will go to
Puma to free Carter from his previous shoe contract, the report said quoting
anonymous sources.

But lawyer Norman Oberstein, from the firm Oberstein, Kibre and Horowitz that
represents Puma, said no agreement is pending.

Talks are progressing "satisfactorily," Oberstein said yesterday. "There isn't
anything pending. We're just trying to work things out and, hopefully, we will."

The relationship between Carter and Puma soured last season, when the player
complained about the footwear the company provided him. This summer, an
arbitrator ruled Carter owes Puma $13.5 million US for breaching his endorsement
contract by publicly denouncing Puma's shoes and negotiating with other
companies while under contract.

The ruling also said Carter was responsible for Puma's legal fees (about $1
million US) and prohibited him from signing an endorsement deal with another
company for three years.

Oberstein said Carter would need permission from Puma to negotiate with Nike.
When asked if Puma had granted him that permission, he refused to comment,
saying only that any agreement would be announced promptly.

The report said the three sides were ironing out the final details of the deal,
with Puma demanding a cut of royalties generated by Carter's future with Nike
shoes. Carter's agent, IMG's Mark Steinberg was travelling and unavailable for
comment.

Carter is in Hawaii training with the U.S. Olympic team.

HoopsTV.com is a 24-hour basketball news and entertainment Web site.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vince Carter, left, jostles with Steve Smith during a recent
workout with the U.S. Olympic team.

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 2000 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                             665 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                                  July 5, 2000

PARENTS in this country spend more money on school sports kit than they do on
uniform, books or computer gear - GBP 1.1 billion last year.

BYLINE: By

SECTION: Default, Pg.17

LENGTH: 257 words


This will not be in the least surprising to parents who have had to stump up for
new trainers recently, especially if you have a trend-setting teenager who
desperately wants a particular brand-name.

But students in America are taking on the might of the corporate sports
manufacturing giants likes Nike and Adidas in a protest movement which is said
to be the biggest student unrest since the 1960s. Already this year there have
been 16 organised sit-ins at university buildings.

Students are protesting about sweatshop factories which they claim are used to
turn out university-endorsed clothing and sportswear - companies like Nike and
Reebok give lucrative sponsorship deals to American sports colleges and
universities.

The main aim of the United Students Against Sweatshops campaign is to raise
public awareness about the conditions found in some Third World country
production lines. The campaign is working.

Already Nike has been forced for the first time to publish the locations of
their factories.

Also universities have accepted student demands to sign up with the Workers
Rights Consortium, a body made up of human rights and labour campaigners,
university officials and students.

Campaigner Molly McGrath explained: 'Our clothes shouldn't be made by people who
are treated like slaves - it's an easy thing to understand.i

And as a parent (I must declare a financial, self-interest here), I would be
more than happy if kids in this country decided that it was uncool to buy
expensive, brand name sports gear too.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2000 Herald Express


                             670 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          September 20, 2000 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Johnson the highestpaid shoe salesman tries on a golden pair for size;
Athletics, Olympics Sport

BYLINE: Darrin Farrant

SECTION: OLYMPICS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 539 words


The world's highestpaid shoe salesman dropped in to town last week for a
fortnight of product placement. But first he had to find somewhere to run.

The management of Michael Johnson, reigning Olympic champion at the 200 and the
400 metres, had to scramble after the star arrived at the chosen training track
E.S. Marks Field in Sydney's Moore Park to discover it had been closed by the
local council.

Hoping to avoid media attention and still find somewhere to train, they
contacted the Australian athletics team. Eventually Johnson and his fast feet
were able to stretch out on a track at Narrabeen along the city's northern
beaches.

Yesterday, though, those feet were carefully enclosed when the American fronted
a media conference near the Olympic Village. Ostensibly it was to discuss his
form coming into the Games, but really it was another chance to sell shoes,
specifically Nike shoes even if no one else can actually buy the pair he is
flogging. For a while there were questions about his fitness (much better since
his hamstring injury during the United States selection trials in July), his
form (very strong in Europe recently) and his confidence (even higher than usual
because he is not running the 200m this time).

"This is my last Olympics and I want to be able to enjoy it a lot more," he
said.

Then out came two Nike designers carrying a shiny drawstring bag. It contained
"the shoe", an item many of us had apparently been anticipating ever since
Johnson wore a goldcoloured pair on his way to victory in Atlanta.

The new shoe turned out to be gold again, although this time it was real gold,
as in 24carat gold droplets around the outside. Real gold droplets are supposed
to help with flexibility (true). Wearing gold on your shoes also has an instant
"retinal impact", as one of the Nike techheads so coyly put it.

And that means a massive boost to worldwide sales, of course, especially if
Johnson wins again. That's why they started developing this shoe in December
1997, studying slowmotion replays and consulting endlessly with Johnson.

Now the 33yearold Texan just has to win on Monday night, a relatively sure
prospect given the way he has dominated the 400m event during the past decade.
Johnson said it's history that motivated him when he competed. History fulfilled
as in the first man to win the 200 and 400 at the Olympics (Atlanta, 1996), and
history planned as in the first man to successfully defend his 400 Olympic title
(Sydney 2000).

Then there's the records, times that are "so far out there that it's hard to
understand," as he succinctly explained. His world record for the 200 19.32
seconds set in the Atlanta final was the first example. To mortals, his second
world record 43.18 for the 400, set at the world championships last year in
Seville also qualifies.

But not to Johnson, who thinks that given ideal conditions, a time below 43
seconds is possible perhaps as early as Sydney.

"I don't know when it's going to come, but I'm running out of time. As soon as
possible!"

FACT FILE

MICHAEL JOHNSON

Born: September 13, 1967, in Dallas, Texas

Events: 400m, 4x400m relay

PBs: 200m: 19.32 WR; 400m: 43.18 WR.

Career highlights: 1996 Olympic 200m, 400m golds; four-time world 400m champion;
twice world 200m champ.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             671 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The New Zealand Herald

                           December 19, 2000 Tuesday

Soccer: 'Just control it' - the power behind Brazil

SECTION: SPORT; Soccer; Worldcup

LENGTH: 735 words


It will probably remain forever one of the biggest mysteries in world football.
Since July 12, 1998, acres of newsprint and hour upon hour of broadcasting time
have been devoted to the question of whether Ronaldo should have played in the
World Cup final against France and who decided that he should play.

The world's greatest footballer, taking the field just hours after he had
suffered a fit, was a shadow of himself as Brazil were comprehensively beaten
3-0 by the hosts.

To add to the mystery, his name had not appeared on the original team-sheet
published shortly before kick-off.

The question that has been repeatedly asked since that day concerns Nike, whose
shirt deal with Brazil is the most lucrative in the world between a sportswear
manufacturer and a national football team.

Did Nike put pressure on Brazil to include Ronaldo for their own commercial
reasons? The company said at the time that it was "absurd and insulting" to
suggest it had influenced team selection. While the current inquiry by the
Brazilian Congress into the Nike deal has not provided a definitive answer, the
inquiry has revealed how great a say Nike have in the national team's affairs.

The biggest revelation has been that Mario Zagallo, the national coach during
the World Cup, had been on an individual contract with Nike for a year up until
the World Cup finals. Zagallo's own role in the selection of Ronaldo has been
the subject of much debate and that he was on Nike's payroll can only add weight
to accusations that the sportswear company may have had some input into team
selection in France.

Lidio Toledo, Brazil's chief doctor at the World Cup, told the inquiry that one
of the reasons why he had cleared Ronaldo to play was that he was afraid of
being lynched at home had the striker been ruled out and Brazil defeated.

Edmundo, a member of the squad, told the commission that Ronaldo had woken up
unaware that he had suffered a fit.

The doctors were reluctant to tell him and it was only on the insistence of a
team-mate, Leonardo, that Ronaldo was taken to hospital. Edmundo, however, is
not regarded as the most credible of witnesses.

He is a wayward personality who had a vested interest in whether Ronaldo played
or not as he would have been in the starting lineup had Ronaldo not been
selected.

On one key point, however, his evidence is backed up by other sources. Edmundo
says that Zagallo was told of Ronaldo's problem within 15 minutes.

It was the same story from Toledo, an old friend of Zagallo, and has
subsequently been backed up in a press interview by the team captain, Dunga.
Zagallo, however, has always insisted that he was sleeping at the time and was
only told some three hours afterwards.

When they decided to enter the football market, Nike saw they had to have
Brazil, everyone's favourite other team. However, further research left them
worried. In Brazil there was no tradition of the national side being in constant
activity. The squad were called up for bursts for a World Cup, or Copa America
for example.

Part of the deal, therefore, included the Nike tour, five games a year (which
time restrictions have since reduced to two) where Brazil would be matched
against opponents the company chose. To ensure the spectacle was worthy of the
company's investment, eight recognised first-team players had to be included.

Because Nike were concerned that they might not get a fair hearing from the
Brazilian legal system, the company reserved the right to take contractual
disputes to a court anywhere in the world, while the Brazilian federation could
take cases only to Zurich.

The business practices of an especially aggressive multinational, and their
apparent lack of trust in their partner, led to an unprecedented corporate level
of involvement with a national team.

In theory it looked so simple: Brazil enchant the world with wonderful football;
Nike creams off profit and prestige.

Nike's omnipresent airport lounge commercial had helped stoke the myth of a
Dream Team something which never, even briefly, presented itself on the field.
When the bubble burst the biggest casualty was Ronaldo, whose mind and body gave
way under the strain of carrying a wilting team through to the World Cup final.

Caught between modern business pressures and traditional national pride, his
broken career is a monument to the dangers of such a potent cocktail.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

          Copyright 2000 The New Zealand Herald.  All Rights Reserved.


                             673 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                          June 2, 2000, Friday, FINAL

Woods making switch to new Nike golf ball: New ball produced a third in Germany
and first in the Memorial Tournament.

BYLINE: Doug Ferguson

SECTION: Sports; F16

LENGTH: 538 words


Tiger Woods is making the switch to the swoosh.

After testing a new ball during competition in Germany and in the Memorial
Tournament, Woods said Thursday he will formally switch to the Nike Tour
Accuracy ball when he plays the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach in two weeks.

Woods finished third in the Deutsche Bank Open, and then won the Memorial last
week by five strokes.

''I think it's done pretty good so far,'' he said last week.

The announcement officially ends a marketing conflict between Woods' top two
golf sponsors - Nike and Titleist - that began last year when Nike entered the
ball market.

Titleist argued that Nike was using Woods to promote golf balls because of two
commercials - one that showed Woods bouncing a ball off his wedge, another that
showed hackers on the range belting 300-yard drives as soon as Woods showed up.

CEO Wally Uihlein contemplated a lawsuit, but instead reworked Woods' deal so
that he was paid only when he used Titleist equipment in tournaments. Titleist
also gave up its right to have its logo on his bag and to use Woods in
advertisements.

''Clearly, these were signs and signals suggestive that different futures were
in the cards for both parties, '' Uihlein said in a statement Thursday.
''Titleist has never been about one player, but rather a 50-year history of
being the most played ball by more of the best players.''

Woods was in Oregon on Thursday for a dedication at Pumpkin Ridge, where he won
his third straight U.S. Amateur, and to attend a Nike sales meeting.

''I understand the conflicts that were inherent in Nike's introduction of a golf
ball,'' Woods said in a statement through IMG. ''I especially appreciate the way
Wally, personally, and Titleist have handled this in a professional manner.''

Woods is expected to continue playing Titleist clubs.

He began testing balls earlier this year while at home in Florida, and he put
the Nike ball in play for the first time in Germany.

The Tour Accuracy version he played the past two weeks is a multi- layer ball
that spins less, something Woods has been working on the past year.

''Obviously, it feels different,'' he said last week at the Memorial. ''Any time
you hit a two-piece ball versus a wound ball, you're going to feel a dramatic
difference. But the performance, the cover, feels very similar to mine.''

Woods said the wound ball tended to peak a little more in flight, while
two-piece balls were more likely to be a little more flat.

''It's going to fly a little bit different. It will just take some time getting
used to that,'' he said.

The fact Woods has officially switched balls could be a boost to Nike Golf,
which only has about one per cent of the ball market share.

''If he decides to switch, it's an earthquake,'' Bob Wood, president of Nike
Golf, said when Woods first used the ball in Germany.

It was not immediately clear how the announcement would affect ongoing
negotiations with Woods for a new Nike deal. Nike spokesman Mike Kelly said if
Woods did use the ball, his original five-year contract likely would be amended.

Golf World Business reported that Woods' camp was looking over two proposals
from Nike - one in which he used the ball.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             674 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                  The State Journal-Register(Springfield, IL)

                           February 9, 2000 Wednesday

BUSINESS DIGEST

SECTION: Pg. 31

LENGTH: 397 words


High-tech visas

WASHINGTON - High-tech companies, desperate for workers amid a booming economy,
want to hire more foreigners and are pushing Congress to expand an immigration
program that will let them do just that.

Congress temporarily expanded the program in 1998, increasing the number of
six-year visas from 65,000 to 115,000 per year. But that hasn't satisfied the
high-tech industry's appetite for skilled workers with college degrees.

Lawmakers on both sides of the political aisle, reacting to the industry's
growing clout, are developing legislation that would respond to that desire,
despite criticism from labor, which contends the foreign workers are unneeded
and underpaid at the high-tech jobs.

Losing risky loans

WASHINGTON - Some lawmakers warned Tuesday that tightening rules for banks that
make many risky loans to people with poor credit histories could hurt low-income
and minority neighborhoods that depend on such loans.

Federal regulators made the proposal because of concerns about recent bank
failures. Two big bank failures - of First National Bank of Keystone, based in
Keystone, W.Va., and BestBank of Boulder, Colo. - involved fraud and cost the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. more than $1 billion.

Regulators and lawmakers are concerned about the eight U.S. bank failures last
year, which occurred amid a booming economy.

Swoosh: Nike stock falls

BEAVERTON, Ore. - Shares of Nike fell nearly 19 percent Tuesday after the
athletic shoe maker said it will not meet earnings expectations for fiscal 2000.

In a statement, Nike said it still expects its earnings per share to grow 20
percent despite a shakeout in the U.S. retail industry. Nevertheless, Nike
president Tom Clarke said that annual earnings per share could fall below the
current estimates of $2.08 by analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial.

Excluding a restructuring charge, Beaverton-based Nike earned $1.66 per share in
fiscal 1999, which ended May 31. A 20 percent increase would mean earnings of
about $1.99 a share.

On the news, investors sent the stock down $8. 371/2 to $36.871/2 - a 52-week
low - at 3:30 p.m. CST on the New York Stock Exchange.

Clarke said many of Nike's retail partners in the U.S. have experienced a slump
in footwear sales, causing them to close many of their stores.

FROM WIRE SERVICES

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The State Journal-Register


                             675 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Foreign Affairs;
Knight Is Right

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 728 words


Some things are true even though Phil Knight, the chairman of Nike, believes
them.

Mr. Knight recently made news by suddenly withdrawing a contemplated $30 million
gift to the University of Oregon after the university balked at joining a
coalition -- the Fair Labor Association (F.L.A.) -- that was formed by human
rights groups, colleges, the U.S. government and companies such as Nike to
alleviate global sweatshop conditions. Oregon opted to join an alternative group
being pushed on college campuses, the Worker Rights Consortium (W.R.C.), which
also plans to combat sweatshops, but refuses to cooperate with any companies,
such as Nike.

The natural assumption is that Mr. Knight is wrong. The truth is, Nike has a
shameful past when it comes to tolerating sweatshops. But on the question of how
best to remedy those conditions in the future -- which Nike has now agreed to do
-- Mr. Knight is dead right and Oregon wrong: The best way to create global
governance -- over issues from sweatshops to the environment -- when there is no
global government is to build coalitions, in which enlightened companies,
consumers and social activists work together to forge their own rules and
enforcement mechanisms. That's what the F.L.A. represents and it's what the
W.R.C. doesn't.

We've heard plenty this year about the downsides of globalization. The question
is what to do about it. The more radical protesters, such as the W.R.C., want to
trash multinationals and get the World Trade Organization to set rules for
workers and the environment, not just for trade. And what practical effect have
the protesters had so far? Zero.

So what to do? Well, it comes down to this: Do you want a make a point or do you
want to make a difference? The F.L.A. was formed to make a difference. The
W.R.C. was formed to make a point.

The F.L.A. was founded four years ago, and it now includes the Lawyers Committee
for Human Rights, the National Council of Churches, the International Labor
Rights Fund, 135 universities and major apparel companies such as Liz Claiborne,
Levi Strauss, Nike, Reebok and Adidas. After long talks, this diverse group
agreed on a nine-point code for any apparel factory anywhere in the world --
including rules against forced labor and child labor, as well as freedom of
association, minimum wages, maximum working hours, lighting, bathrooms and
safety. They also agreed on a system of independent monitoring, surprise
inspections and follow-ups, which is now being tested in five developing
countries.

Companies whose factories comply will be able to sew an "F.L.A." label into
their clothing, and the 135 universities have agreed that their logos will go
only on F.L.A.-made products. Global brands can't afford any longer to be
associated with sweatshops, and the F.L.A. creates a credible system for
empowering consumers to punish dirty companies and reward improving ones.

The W.R.C., by contrast, is backed by protectionist U.S. unions, such as Unite,
that don't want any system that would give a stamp of approval to any production
outside the U.S. That's one reason the W.R.C. won't work with companies. But
that means the W.R.C. has no way of consistently monitoring factories or
following up remedies, and it is only focused on clothing sold on college
campuses.

It's good that there's a W.R.C. out there noisily protesting sweatshops and
embarrassing companies. But the W.R.C. is not a substitute for the F.L.A., which
has a comprehensive strategy for upgrading the whole apparel industry. It's a
pity that some cowardly college presidents -- intimidated by a few vocal and
often uninformed students -- have quit the F.L.A. in favor of the W.R.C.

"If you want to improve people's lives in the absence of a global government,
you need to align the economic interests of the better global companies with the
social interests of the least advantaged people," said Sam Brown, the 1960's
antiwar activist, former U.S. ambassador and now director of the F.L.A. "We need
to make these companies our allies, not our opponents. We won't change the world
overnight. But it is foolish to dismiss the F.L.A. because it does not go far
enough or fast enough. The issue is how to get from here to there, and the
F.L.A. has a real strategy for harnessing U.S. consumer power to change the
lives and working conditions of real people."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             678 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                          September 30, 2000, Saturday

Nike set for Man U deal

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 125

LENGTH: 50 words


NIKE is set to shell out $790 million to have its logo appear on the jerseys of
the world's most popular professional soccer club, Manchester United, a media
report said yesterday.

The massive 15-year deal is to begin in 2002, when Manchester United's present
contract with Umbro expires.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             680 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 19, 2000

John David in festive leap

SECTION: Pg. 42

LENGTH: 90 words


THE Nike, Adidas and Reebok brands made further inroads into the nation's
wardrobes this Christmas, according to retailer John David Sports.

Its trading statement today showed a 17.6% rise in like-for-like sales over the
five weeks to 1 January.

The shares were unchanged despite the news it was losing its chief executive,
David Patrick, after a clash with the longstanding chairman John Wardle and
finance director Peter Cowgill.

Wardle resumes the position of chief executive which he had before Patrick
joined.


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             681 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 7, 2000

NIKE'S GBP 6M RUNNING BATTLE

BYLINE: FROM IVOR KEY IN NEW YORK

LENGTH: 401 words


AN orthopedic surgeon is suing Nike for GBP 6million after tripping over a lace
on her trainers.

Dr Deborah Faryniarz says she suffered permanent injuries to her wrist when she
fell while jogging. She says the design of the footwear, Certitude Cross
trainers costing GBP 62, was to blame.

Pregnant with her first child at the time, she says the injury to her right
wrist came only days before she was due to begin performing wrist operations.
She claims she now needs help while carrying out surgery including getting other
medical staff to twist screws into bones. In documents filed in the US District
Court in Manhattan, the New York doctor said she was wearing the Certitude Cross
trainers when her right lace hooked around the distinctive leather heel tab of
the left shoe.

She was due to begin performing wrist operations where she worked "but she ended
up with her supervising professor also treating her," said her lawyer James
Kreindler. He added, however, that her child was born healthy despite the fall
in April last year.

Since the injury, he said, Dr Faryniarz had managed to continue to perform
operations and other work but only with the help of fellow doctors and nurses.

It is alleged that Nike was negligent for "carelessly designing, manufacturing,
assembling, inspecting, testing and distributing" the trainers. The crux of the
lawsuit, said Mr Kreindler, was that Nike allegedly knew their product was
hazardous but failed to fix the flaws.

The lawsuit claims the fall was caused by a leather tab which rises about an
inch and a half from the back of the shoe and is used to pull it onto the foot.

On Certitude Cross trainers, it's claimed, the tab is larger and more rigid than
on other designs, making it easier for the shoelace to catch on it. Mr Kreindler
said that as a result of tripping, Dr Faryniarz suffered "permanent physical
disfigurement and disabilities with far reaching effects on all aspects of her
personal and professional life".

He added: "Ms Faryniarz also suffered great pain, suffering and mental anguish.
She is still trying to be a surgeon but is uncertain what her future will be."

Cheryl McCants, a spokeswoman for Nike in Beaverton, Oregon, said the company
was not ready to comment.Nike is the world's leading maker and marketer of
athletic shoes with a GBP 5billion turnover and profits of GBP 330million last
year.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                             682 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                            June 21, 2000, Wednesday

Aboriginals' outrage over Cathy's 'sorry' commercial

BYLINE: TOM SALOM

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 335 words


SPORTSWEAR giant Nike has come under fire for using Aboriginal runner Cathy
Freeman in a TV commercial that features the word "sorry" 15 times.

Freeman plays only a minor role in the commercial, but the timing of its release
has stung Aboriginal activists.

National Sorry Day Committee chairman Audrey Kinnear claimed Nike was trying to
exploit the reconciliation process.

Ms Kinnear said the continuous use of the word "sorry" trivialised the issue of
whether the Federal Government should apologise to the stolen generation.

"By using 'sorry' so many times and in so many ways, they are actually
trivialising what 'sorry' stands for," Ms Kinnear said.

"It's not Cathy's fault, but many Aboriginal people would be thinking that Cathy
is guilty by association.

"I thought that with all the publicity, nationally and internationally, they
would have been a bit more sensitive about it," she said.

Nike has used 20, mainly Olympic, athletes who apologise to their family,
friends and workmates for their obsession with sport.

Most, including runner Steve Moneghetti and footballer James Hird, say "Sorry"
in a light-hearted manner for being driven by success.

Teenage runner Georgie Clarke apologises to her school friends for training
instead of walking home with them and embattled spin bowler Shane Warne says
sorry to Dennis, in an apparent reference to breaking Dennis Lillee's
wicket-taking record.

Freeman doesn't actually say "Sorry", but turns to the camera and says, "Can we
talk about this later?" before running off into the distance.

Nike Olympics spokeswoman Megan Ryan said the timing of the "sorry" commercial
was purely coincidental.

Nike was trying to show how athletes had to apologise to a lot of people they
did not have time for during Olympic preparations.

"While we understand there is some sensitivity and contention around the 'sorry'
issue, it was more a behind-the-scenes look at athletes ... they have to say
sorry to a lot of people," she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             684 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                       January 7, 2000, Friday, Edition 1

NIKE IN DIRTY SHIRT SCANDAL

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 941 words


BERLIN - Nike said yesterday it is investigating charges that its
 jerseys for a popular German soccer club are laced with a toxic
 anti-bacterial chemical. German department stores weren't waiting
 and were already pulling the shirts off shelves.

 The action followed a German television report that Borussia Dortmund's
yellow-and-black jerseys contained tributyltin, a heavy metal compound used in
anti-barnacle paint for ships.

Also used to kill bacteria and quell the smell of sweat, TBT would seem an ideal
additive for sports shirts. But tests have shown the substance to cause
mutations in marine snails and the World Wildlife Fund is calling for its global
ban.

Borussia Dortmund didn't seem worried, though. The team will don its regular
outfit for an exhibition match tomorrow, a club spokesperson said.

Canada edged

BARCELONA - Sukhbir Singh Gill scored the only goal as India beat Canada 1-0 in
the opening round of the four-nation men's field hockey tournament yesterday.
After a dry first half, India scored in the 38th minute to defeat Canada, the
gold medalist at last summer's Pan Am Games in Winnipeg. Canada plays Spain
today.

Kiwis clinch

NAPIER, New Zealand - Stephen Fleming blazed his second successive half- century
against the West Indies to guide New Zealand to a four-wicket win yesterday in
the third limited-overs international and clinch an unbeatable 3- 0 lead in the
five-game series. West Indies was dismissed for 159. Fleming scored 66 and
Nathan Astle 50.

Volleyballers roll

LAKELAND, Fla. - The Canadian women's volleyball team has only the U.S. squad
between it and a berth in the Olympic Games later this summer at Sydney,
Australia. Canada downed the Dominican Republic 3-2 (24-26, 25-20, 23-25, 25-
19, 15-12) yesterday in the four-country North America, Central America and
Caribbean zone qualifying tournament to improve to 2-0. Canada will meet the
U.S. in the final tomorrow, with the winner qualifying for Sydney.

Canuck tops card

NEW YORK - Canada's Kirk Johnson will be featured when promoter Cedric Kushner
opens a series of all-heavyweight boxing shows Jan. 27 at the Manhattan Center.
The card will pit Johnson (28-0-1, 20 KOs) of North Preston, N.S., against
Israel Cole (15-9-4, nine KOs) of Las Vegas.

King of the hill

BISCHOFSHOFEN, Austria - Austrian Andreas Widhoelzl won the Four-Hill Tour by
posting a hill record and soaring to victory yesterday in the last stop of the
World Cup ski jumping series. Widhoelzl, 23, won the championship over Janne
Ahonen of Finland and Martin Schmitt of Germany, who also finished the event in
that order. Widhoelzl set a record for the K120 hill by soaring 131. 5 metres in
the first series, then flew 129 metres in the second heat.

WITH FILES FROM STAR WIRE SERVICES



LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PETER BRENNEKEN/AP
 TOXIC TOPS:
 A German fan examines Borussia Dortmund jerseys yesterday.

                  Copyright 2000 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             687 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    Sunday Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                           September 10, 2000, Sunday

a casual approach

BYLINE: Sarah Wilson

SECTION: SUNDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. Z26

LENGTH: 466 words


Playing the game

Nike contrast jacket $79, "Dri-Fit" tank $45 and 3/4 track pants $49; Reebok
"Storm" DMX runners $129.

Functionally fashionable

French Connection jacket $130; M-One-11 "Kano Crew" T-shirt $87.90; Dangerfield
"Detached" pants $145; Acupuncture "Dom Dom" runners $199.

Splash the color round

M-One-11 "Treatment" muscle

T-shirt $43.90; Lee "Jaffa"

jeans $110; Le Freak "Slide"

runners $109.

All-weather wearing

Diesel "Kloot" jacket $319

and "Type 73" pants

$209; Le Freak "Disco"

runners $109.

LA loafin' gear

M-One-11 "Dugout" T-shirt $54.90; Lee men's 3/4 jeans (also available in
women's) $110; Puma "GV Special"

runners $120.

The savvy sportsman

Nike sweat top $79 and track pants $49; Puma "High Frequency" vest $88; Nike Air
"Presto" runners $160.

Bright and basic

Paul Frank "Aardvark" T-shirt $45; Portmans stretch denim jacket $79.95; Mooks
lounge shorts $96; Le Freak "Disco" runners $109.

Smart, yet casual

French Connection knit top $120; A/X Armani Exchange fringe shorts $140; French
Connection leather runners $170.

*

Taking trainers to the street

Why work out when you can strut inner-city streets in these?

Acupuncture "Taffy" (women's) $189.

Zoe Wittner "Claren" (women's) $99.95.

The trendsetters

Be noticed: Try an old school style or sneakers with attitude.

Puma "Sprint" (unisex; exclusive to Marcs) $150.

Acupuncture "Andro" (men's) $199.

Trainers with a purpose

Sometimes you just need a shoe that gets straight down to business.

Globe "Chet Thomas IV" (men's skate) $174.95.

Reebok "Daytona" DMX (men's running) $159.

Mould-to-the-foot comfort

New technology, new comfort. Try Nike's five-sizes-fits-all "Presto" or slip on
a lace-free.

Puma Flow "Slip On" (unisex) $120.

Nike Air "Presto" (unisex) $160.

Smartening up sneakers

Sneaker comfort meets snappy dressing. Team these with a suit or your Sunday
best.

French Connection (men's) leather $170.

Zoe Wittner "Mouton" (women's) $129.95.

Slide it on

Flip-flopping around has never been so comfortable. Lose the laces and slide
away.

Le Freak "Slide" (women's) $109.

Diesel "Daze-e" (women's) $138.60.

*

Stockist inquiries:

Acupuncture: (02) 9967 2344. Wittner: 1300 137 463. Puma: 1800 811 511. Marcs:
(02) 8396 7800. Nike: 1300 656 453. French Connection: 1800 006 655. Globe: (03)
9428 9428. Reebok: (02) 9698 7000. Le Freak: (03) 9820 9333. Diesel from Louis
Epstein Jeans: (03) 9826 1035. M-One-11: (03) 9428 9428. Dangerfield: (03) 9416
3694. Lee: (03) 9482 7133. Paul Frank: (03) 9428 9428. Portmans: (03) 9429 2166.
Mooks: (03) 9428 9428. A/X Armani Exchange: (02) 9231 0047.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: SHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             688 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            June 7, 2000, Wednesday

Nike settles with union

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 55 words


SPORTSWEAR giant Nike admitted yesterday it was guilty of breaching the Clothing
Trades Award and agreed to pay the textile workers' union $15,000 in penalties.

The company reached a settlement with the Textile, Clothing and Footwear Union
of Australia after the union brought proceedings against it in the Federal
Court.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             689 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 29, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Sweatshop Monitor Invites Corporate Input

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 607 words


Representatives of universities belonging to a new group set up by students to
monitor apparel factories led a call yesterday to give companies a greater say
in the group's work. The move came as Nike, the footwear giant, moved once again
against a university that had joined the monitoring group.

Meeting in a Chicago suburb, university officials said it was time for the
monitoring group, the Workers Rights Consortium -- which is run by students,
university officials and human rights and union leaders -- to begin a dialogue
with apparel producers like Nike.

Over the last week, the consortium has come under heavy fire from Nike, which
accuses the group of being unfriendly to business and not giving companies a say
in its affairs. Phil Knight, Nike's chairman and founder, even announced that he
would not make a planned $30 million donation to his alma mater, the University
of Oregon, because it had joined the consortium.

On Thursday, Nike announced that it was ending negotiations to renew a six-year,
multimillion-dollar licensing agreement with the University of Michigan because
that institution had joined the consortium.

Student anti-sweatshop groups persuaded nearly 50 universities to join the
consortium as a way to monitor factories, in the United States and abroad, that
make apparel under license for colleges. The consortium's goal is to make sure
apparel carrying a university's name is not made in sweatshops.

Lawrence Mann, associate chancellor of the University of Illinois and a leader
of the Workers Rights Consortium, said a major topic at yesterday's meeting was
the universities' desire to give the industry a greater voice in the consortium.
But Mr. Mann said his university and most others in the group opposed giving
companies a seat on the board.

"The college and university group appears to be unanimous about the importance
of engaging industry in the discussion," he said in a telephone interview from
the headquarters of the Big 10 Conference in Park Ridge, Ill. "If that doesn't
happen, the reality is the membership of the Workers Rights Consortium is just
talking to itself."

Mr. Mann said the universities were pushing to give companies more say even
before Nike acted against the universities of Oregon and Michigan.

"This is not being motivated by anything Nike has done," Mr. Mann said. "But the
concern expressed by Nike and other companies is a very legitimate question."

Peter Romer-Friedman, a University of Michigan junior who is one of the 3
students on the consortium's 12-member board, praised the universities' call to
begin talking with companies.

"The Workers Rights Consortium wants to engage Nike and other companies in a
dialogue so we can work together to improve working conditions in all
factories," Mr. Romer-Friedman said.

Nike supports another monitoring group, the Fair Labor Association, which is
backed by the White House and includes a dozen companies, 135 colleges and a
handful of consumer and human rights groups. That association has created an
elaborate plan to inspect factories around the world.

But student anti-sweatshop groups insist that the Fair Labor Association is
dominated by companies and will not carry out tough, independent inspections.

Nike said it had ended negotiations with Michigan because, in its view, the
university had unilaterally changed terms of the agreement to comply with the
requirements of the Workers Rights Consortium.

Using unusually harsh language, the university said, "Nike has chosen again to
strike out at universities committed to finding appropriate ways to safeguard
and respect human rights."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             690 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 15, 2000, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Nike Tournament of Champions has 13 Top 25 girls teams

BYLINE: Chris Lawlor

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 13C

LENGTH: 557 words


It's the most intriguing Nike Tournament of Champions in its three-year
history that tips off Monday in Chicago and Evanston, Ill.

Why the intrigue? Simply, the 32-team girls basketball tournament,
which is split into two divisions, features 13 entries in USA
TODAY's Super 25 rankings. The eventual champion of the tournament's
Red Division, considered the elite flight, can make a strong claim
for the nation's top ranking.


Fueling the tournament's magnitude is Tuesday's loss by Highlands
Ranch (Colo.), the top-ranked team. Preseason No. 1 Ben Davis
of Indianapolis lost last week.

"I think that fact makes the tournament much more exciting for
people to watch," says Mountain View (Orem, Utah) coach Dave
Houle, whose No. 11-ranked team plays Bellevue (Wash.). "Hey,
this is our one glimmer of hope to show that Utah teams play big-time
basketball. Somebody's going to leave the tournament 4-0 and another
0-4."

Other Red Division matchups are: Narbonne (Harbor City, Calif.)-Hart
County (Munfordville, Ky); North Atlanta (Ga.)-Bullis School (Potomac,
Md.); South Sioux City (Neb.)-Mount Vernon (Alexandria, Va.);
Hanford (Calif.)-John Marshall (Chicago); Riverdale Baptist (Upper
Marlboro, Md.)-Germantown Academy (Fort Washington, Pa.); and
Berkeley (Calif.)-Miami Edison.

The tournaments will be played at DePaul University's Athletic
Center and Northwestern's Welsh-Ryan Arena. The Red Division title
game is Thursday afternoon at Welsh-Ryan.

The tournament makes its inaugural appearance in the Midwest after
a run in Santa Barbara, Calif.

"If you want to be the best, you must play the best," Narbonne
coach James Anderson said. "We feel that our program is top five
every year. This tournament prepares us for our state tournament."

In the Blue Division, there are two key first round contests involving
USA TODAY Regional teams: Brea Olinda (Brea, Calif.)-Mountain
Pointe of Phoenix, 10th in the West Regional rankings; and Whitney
Young (Chicago)-Briarcrest Christian, seventh in the South Region.

Support group: DeMatha Catholic (Hyattsville, Md.) players
shaved their heads before a game this week in a show of support
for boys coach Morgan Wootten's 13-year-old grandson, Stephen
Paul, who has Hodgkin's Disease and is undergoing chemotherapy.

"I heard a rumor they might do that," said Wootten, whose team
is ranked fifth by USA TODAY. "Then, boom, I saw it. It really
chokes you up."

Wootten said his grandson, who knows several of the DeMatha players
from attending his camp, thought the action "was awesome."

Briefly: Lamar Rogers of Clarkrange (Tenn.) became the
13th girls high school basketball coach with 700 victories, in
a 67-54 win over Pickett County. The win left Rogers, 48, with
a 700-130 record in 25 seasons at Clarkrange. He has won six state
titles. [#133] The South Puget Sound League in Seattle has suspended
wrestling matches and contract drills until Thursday because of
skin infections -- including herpes gladiatorum, a herpes simplex
strain -- caused from skin-to-skin contact. A wrestler from Auburn
High was hospitalized with skin lesions, four were affected to
varying degrees at Lake Washington High and two from Enumclaw
High are on antibiotics for bacterial infections.

Contributing: Don Collins

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY; Support: DeMatha coach Morgan
Wootten's players support his ailing grandson.

                      Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.


                             692 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 25, 2000, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Ex-Nike exec named marketing leader

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 117 words


Norm Blake hired a "Just Do It" kind of executive when he named
Matt Mannelly his new chief marketing officer of the U.S. Olympic
Committee.

Mannelly, who has been with Nike since 1993 and most recently
worked as the company's global director of retail development,
will oversee the USOC's corporate marketing and communications
division. He joins USOC on June 5. With no Games in the USA after
the 2002 Olympics, attracting sponsors could pose a bigger challenge
than usual.

"Matt Mannelly will head up a program for marketing and brand
development for the USOC that will be a world-class model," said
Blake, who just finished his first 100 days as the new CEO of
the USOC.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Gannett Company, Inc.


                             693 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 17, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STRONG SALES BOOST NIKE'S QUARTER PROFIT

BYLINE: Compiled from the Associated Press, Bridge News and Bloomberg, News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 72 words


Nike Inc., the world's largest footwear maker, said Thursday its fiscal
third-quarter earnings rose by 18 percent on strong shoe sales in the U.S. and
"robust" international business. The sports apparel and footwear maker posted
third quarter net income of $145.3 million, or 52 cents a share, on revenues of
$2.16 billion, compared to $124.2 million, or 44 cents a share, on revenues of
$2.18 billion a year ago.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Business News

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             696 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                            July 19, 2000, Wednesday

Sci-fi gear a year ahead of 2001

BYLINE: MELISSA HOYER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 440 words


OF COURSE our Olympic competition team uniforms have gone the green and gold.

Let's face it, recognition of our sporting prowess wouldn't be the same if we
didn't see that ghastly colour combo take to the podium to accept the golds. Or
silver. Or bronze.

But this time, instead of jeering our usual, nauseating sports colour alliance,
we should be cheering them.

The collection is slick, polished and in tune with the fusion of sport and
style.

At yesterday's "reveal" of the gear our Olympians and Paralympians hope will
help them to win gold, the unveiling took on serious fashion show proportions.

Following a lead thrust onto the fashion scene a few seasons ago -- that of
"techno-charging" every piece in your wardrobe -- the same vibe was felt in the
Australian uniforms.

With the help (the entire design expertise in fact) of American mega-brand Nike,
our uniforms blend cutting-edge fabric development and technically advanced
designs.

Of course, the choice of a US brand to furnish our athletes will ruffle a few
(and totally unsuitable) local fashion feathers, but get with it guys.

The globalisation of the Olympics is complete -- and the all-too-familiar Nike
"swoosh" is a welcome global brand to outfit our notable sporting names.

Where it leaves the athletes with "other" sponsors will no doubt be another
sticking point for our Olympic big guns.

To "Australianise" the look of the uniform (after all, Nike is outfitting 21
other countries) each piece has a small Southern Cross and "waterfall"

print design.

Simply, if going faster, higher and stronger is the objective, Nike have pulled
out every trick in the design manual.

Steering away from that usual acid-tone of yellow and that garish shade of
green, both colours have been toned back a few pegs.

The yellow is softer and more buttercup-looking while the greens used are
reminiscent of a schoolyard shade and not as tough on the eye.

Track and fielders are going to look like something out of 2001: A Space Odyssey
(they're a year ahead in fact) with full-body, "swift" suits hugging and
embracing every muscle and curve. The suits will also include their heads and
even their wrists.

Our ball-sports athletes are in sleeveless, V-neck, "fashion now" T-shirts and
beach volleyballers look like they could have come off the Baywatch set. But at
least, our athletes have talent.

Editorial: Page 30

'I love the freedom of the two piece and the green and gold. I'll stick with it'

--Lee Naylor (400m athlete)

'The fabric is a little bit different for basketball because it's a lot lighter'

-- Boomers guard Shane Heal

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             697 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

             Metropolitan News Enterprise (Los Angeles, California)

                            March 21, 2000, Tuesday

Nike Statements on Asian Labor Conditions Were Protected Speech, Appeals Court
Rules

BYLINE: By a MetNews Staff Writer

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 713 words


A state appeals court yesterday rejected a private citizen's attempt to hold
athletic shoe giant Nike, Inc. liable for alleged misrepresentations of its
labor practices in the Asian countries where its products are made, saying the
company's public relations campaign on the subject shouldn't be judged by the
same rules that govern advertisements.

The First District Court of Appeal affirmed a San Francisco trial court's
dismissal of Marc Kasky's lawsuit against the company on First Amendment
grounds.

The press releases and public statements that were part of Nike's public
relations campaign to address allegations of abusive working conditions were
part of a public dialogue on a matter of public concern, and were thus protected
speech, Justice Douglas E. Swager wrote for Div. One. The communications went
beyond the realm of more narrowly protected commercial speech, he said.

"Nike exemplifies the perceived evils or benefits of labor practices associated
with the processes of economic globalization," Swager said.

"Though participants in purely private labor disputes are entitled to certain
First Amendment protections, Nike's strong corporate image and widespread
consumer market places its labor practices in the context of a broader debate
about the social implications of employing low-cost foreign labor for
manufacturing functions once performed by domestic workers," he said.
"...Information about the labor practices at Nike's overseas plants thus
constitutes data relevant to a controversy of great public interest in our
times."

Although Nike is a U.S.-based company, its factories are owned by South Korean
and Taiwanese firms, and are located in those countries, China, Thailand,
Indonesia and Vietnam.

Court records show that 300,000 to 500,000 Nike employees work to manufacture
the shoes and other athletic gear in Asian countries.

Although a Nike-hired consulting firm reported favorable working conditions at
the factories, other investigators reported poor health conditions, 11- to
12-hour work days, compulsory overtime, violation of minimum wage laws, exposure
to dangerous levels of dust and toxic fumes, and employment of workers under the
age of 16.

A series of newspaper and television reports in 1996 and 1997 put additional
pressure on the company for its overseas labor record.

Nike fought back with a costly public relations campaign that characterized the
company as a leader in the fight to improve working conditions in the hot
countries. Press releases detailed answers to the allegations, as did a series
of letters to collegiate athletic directors.

Kasky sued over those releases and letters, alleging that Nike misrepresented
the facts when it asserted that workers are not subjected to corporal punishment
or sexual abuse, that the laws and regulations on wages, hours, health and
safety were observed, that pay averaged double the minimum wage in Southeast
Asia, and that employees receive free meals and health care and a "living wage."

Nike and five of its corporate officers, who were also sued, filed demurrers,
which were sustained without leave to amend by a San Francisco Superior Court
judge.

The courts began recognizing First Amendment protection for commercial speech in
1975 but allowed restraints when such speech was deemed false, deceptive or
misleading.

Swager said the statements at issue for Nike were intended to promote a
favorable corporate image and demand a different analysis than that applying to
product advertisement.

"The press releases and letters at issue here cross the boundary between
political and private decisionmaking," the justice said. "The citizen may want
to translate personal discontent over Nike's labor practices into political
action or may merely wish to refrain from purchasing its products manufactured
by undesired labor practices, just as he or she may wish to buy products with a
union identification."

The analysis isn't changed by the fact that Nike has an economic motivation in
defending its corporate image from criticism, he said. The communications were
still part of a "public dialogue on a matter of public concern within the core
area of expression protected by the First Amendment," he said.

The case is Kasky v. Nike, Inc., A086142.


LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Metropolitan News Company


                             698 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                               September 15, 2000

Olympic money games

BYLINE: (Financial Times Service)

SECTION: CITY EDITION; BUSINESS THIS WEEK 1; ADVERTISING; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 722 words


When the Games of the 27th Olympiad open in Sydney this morning, don't expect a
Nike advertising campaign about the worthless value of a silver medal.

At the Atlanta summer games four years ago, the US sportswear giant ran a
controversial campaign with the slogan: "You don't win silver. You lose gold."

This unsportsmanlike message drew a sharp rebuke from the International Olympic
Committee, which was upset to see one of its central tenets - that it is the
taking part, not the winning, that counts most - so publicly rubbished. Nike has
since become an official sponsor of the Sydney Games. But the committee is
hoping for far wider changes in the commercialism surrounding the Olympics.
Atlanta was something of a disaster for the Olympic movement's image.
Stall-holders attempting to cash in on the games made the city seem more like a
giant fleamarket than host to the world's premier sporting event.

"Atlanta is actually a great city," says Mr Michael Payne, the International
Olympic Committee's marketing director.

"But what the world saw during the games was not reflective of a great city, or
of the Olympic movement."

Sydney's organisers have plans covering everything from revised agreements with
sporting goods companies, such as Adidas and Nike, to introducing new permits
for buskers. Laws have been introduced limiting authorised food and merchandise
vendors to six designated areas in the city. At the committee's insistence, the
Australian government has introduced stringent restrictions on billboards around
Olympic venues. All adverts bigger than five square metres must be approved by
the government.

"That means we're not going to see any giant Reebok or Pepsi signs," says the
Sydney organising committee. Neither Reebok nor Pepsi are official sponsors.

The International Olympic Committee has also taken initiatives of its own. A
code of conduct requires sporting goods companies to consult it about their
marketing campaigns. In return, the companies can make use of individual
athletes' images and endorsements during the Games - something they were
previously denied because of IOC-approved contracts signed between athletes and
their national teams.

The result is a peculiar one. Advertising campaigns that might previously have
been condemned as an unofficial "ambush" now have committee approval. For
example, Adidas has launched a worldwide television campaign that boasts that
Adidas-sponsored athletes will take part in 26 of the 28 sports in Sydney. Yet
Adidas is not an International Olympic Committee sponsor. "We're just doing
effective marketing," says Mr Rob Mills, the company's marketing director in
Australia. "Our objective is not to be seen as an Olympic sponsor. Our objective
is to make our brand stronger." Sydney's preparations have benefited from the
fact that city, state and Games organisers are working under the guidance of a
single committee. In Atlanta a quasi-corporate committee took charge of the
Games but left preparations such as permits for street vendors to city
officials.

Mr Payne believes Sydney will serve as a model for other Olympic host cities.
For the Olympic movement and its corporate sponsors, that may be so: but the
impact on the host cities may prove a mixed blessing. Leaving aside the boost to
tourism and other benefits, Sydney's Games will cost New South Wales taxpayers
140 million Australian dollars (E90 million). Atlanta, for all its tacky
commercialism, made a modest profit for the city. Moreover, doubts remain as to
whether the clean- up will succeed. Even with the restrictions put in place,
there are many signs that other advertisers plan to gatecrash the party.

Australian airlines Qantas - which is not a sponsor - and Ansett - the "official
airline" of the Sydney Games - this month tussled in court over Qantas
advertising with an Olympic theme.

Once the television cameras start rolling, unauthorised laser light shows and
aircrafts etching logos in the skies over Bondi Beach are widely expected.

"I know there have been many non-sponsors in Sydney in the past two weeks
organising what they're going to do," says Mr Martin Hirons, director at
marketing research company Sweeney Research in Melbourne.

The sheer pulling power of the Olympics means controlling advertising is one
game the organisers can never win.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2000 The Irish Times


                             701 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 12, 2000, Sunday

COUNTER: 4 OF THE BEST TRAINERS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 189 words


NIKE

pounds 49.99 Best for joggers

Nike's Superfly trainer in grey and red suede is based on lightweight running
shoes but without the studs used on the track. Available from Offspring (tel:
020 7251 6646).

ADIDAS

pounds 50 Best for splashing out

As its name suggests, the Water Moc has been made with aqua sports lovers in
mind. Its sole has a special grip to avoid any awkward slip-ups and the colour
-coordinated cover stops your laces from getting in the way. From selected
stockists (tel: 0161 419 2500).

PUMA

pounds 120 Best for yoga

The Nuala shoe was specially designed by Christy Turlington to be the ultimate
footwear for practitioners of this ancient art. Its futuristic silver and black
design makes it perfect for clubbers, too. Available from Offspring, as before.

NEW BALANCE

pounds 29.99 Best for all-rounders

The W996 ladies' trainer from US footwear company New Balance deserves a better
name. This smart grey shoe would be equally at home in the office or on the
dancefloor, and the Velcro straps make it easy to slip on and off. Available
from Size? (tel: 020 7287 4016).

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd


                             705 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                             April 7, 2000, Friday

Nike sued by New York doctor

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 24 words


A NEW YORK surgeon has sued Nike Inc for more than $A16.5 million. She claimed
her jogging shoes tripped her and caused permanent injury.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             708 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                    October 26, 2000 Thursday Final Edition

Nike sorry for 'drooling' disabled ad

SOURCE: News Services

SECTION: Sports; Pg. A69

LENGTH: 315 words

For the second time in a month, Nike has withdrawn an advertisement and
apologized after complaints that material intended as humorous was considered
offensive.

First, it was a television commercial featuring middle-distance runner Suzy
Favor Hamilton fleeing a chainsaw-wielding maniac in a parody of various horror
movies. Now it is a magazine ad that spoofs the dangers of trail running, but
contained material that drew complaints that it was insulting to the disabled.

The ad for the Air Dri-Goat trail running shoe claims it will prevent a runner
from slamming into a tree and "... rendering me a drooling, misshapen,
non-extreme-trail-running husk of my former self, forced to roam the Earth in a
motorized wheelchair ..."

ELVIS OUT

Jeff Langdon will replace the injured Elvis Stojko at Skate Canada next month.

Langdon, of Smiths Falls, Ont., trains at the Mariposa club in Barrie, Ont.

"Jeff is a very strong skater who has represented Canada on the international
scene for quite some time now," said Marilyn Chidlow, president of Skate Canada.

Langdon has two top-10 finishes at the world championships, in 1997 and '98.

Stojko is suffering from tendinitis in his left heel.

BRIEFLY ...

Top-ranked Martina Hingis breezed into the quarterfinals of the $2.05-million-US
Kremlin Cup Wednesday, crushing Kveta Hrdlickova of the Czech Republic 6-0, 6-1.
... The International Cycling Union knew Laurent Brochard's medical papers were
falsified when he won the 1997 world road cycling championship. Brochard
testified at the Lille, France, trial of former Festina cyclist Richard Virenque
and nine former team officials facing charges stemming from the 1998 Tour de
France drug scandal. ... A boxer who lapsed into a coma after a fight last week
died Wednesday in Boston without regaining consciousness. Robert Benson, 24, had
been in a coma since Friday.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Sports

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             709 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                   October 26, 2000 Thursday Final C Edition

Nike sorry for 'drooling' disabled ad

SOURCE: News Services

SECTION: Sports; Pg. A69

LENGTH: 334 words

For the second time in a month, Nike has withdrawn an advertisement and
apologized after complaints that material intended as humorous was deemed
offensive.

First, it was a television spot featuring middle-distance runner Suzy Favor
Hamilton fleeing a chainsaw-wielding maniac in a horror movie parody. Now it is
a magazine ad that spoofs the dangers of trail running, but contained material
that drew complaints that it was insulting to the disabled.

The ad for the Air Dri-Goat trail running shoe claims it will prevent a runner
from slamming into a tree and "... rendering me a drooling, misshapen,
non-extreme-trail-running husk of my former self, forced to roam the Earth in a
motorized wheelchair ..."

ELVIS OUT

Jeff Langdon will replace the injured Elvis Stojko at Skate Canada next month.

Langdon, of Smiths Falls, Ont., has two top-10 finishes at the world
championships, in 1997 and '98. Stojko suffers from tendinitis.

BRIEFLY ...

Four Canadian swimmers broke world records en route to gold medals in the pool
at the Paralympics on Wednesday. Jessica Sloan of Calgary, Philippe Gagnon of
Chicoutimi, Que., Stephanie Dixon of Caledon, Ont., and Danielle Campo of
Windsor, Ont., all won in world-record times to improve Canada's swimming medal
total to 30. ... A corporate turnaround artist appointed last spring as the U.S.
Olympic Committee's first chief executive officer resigned Wednesday amid
criticism of his efforts to streamline the operation. Norman Blake said he
decided to step down because a lack of organizational support means he cannot
carry out his strategic plan. ... The International Cycling Union knew Laurent
Brochard's medical papers were falsified when he won the 1997 world road cycling
championship, Brochard told the trial of former Festina cyclist Richard Virenque
and nine former team officials over the 1998 Tour de France drug scandal. ...
Robert Benson, 24, a boxer who lapsed into a coma after a fight last Friday died
Wednesday in Boston.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Sports

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             710 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                            July 19, 2000, Wednesday

Our pride in the green and gold / Slick reinvention of colour combo

BYLINE: Melissa Hoyer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 443 words


OF COURSE our Olympic competition team uniforms have gone the green and gold.

Let's face it, recognition of our sporting prowess wouldn't be the same if we
didn't see that ghastly colour combo take to the podium to accept the golds. Or
silver. Or bronze.

But this time, instead of jeering our usual, nauseating sports colour alliance,
we should be cheering them.

The collection is slick, polished and in tune with the fusion of sport and
style.

At yesterday's "reveal" of the gear our Olympians and Paralympians hope will
help them to win gold, the unveiling took on serious fashion show proportions.

Following a lead thrust on to the fashion scene a few seasons ago -- that of
"techno-charging" every piece in your wardrobe -- the same vibe was felt in the
Australian uniforms.

With the help (the entire design expertise in fact) of American mega-brand Nike,
our uniforms blend cutting-edge fabric development and technically advanced
designs.

Of course, the choice of a US brand to furnish our athletes will ruffle a few
(and totally unsuitable) local fashion feathers, but get with it guys.

The globalisation of the Olympics is complete -- and the all-too-familiar Nike
"swoosh" is a welcome global brand to outfit our notable sporting names.

Where it leaves the athletes with "other" sponsors will no doubt be another
sticking point for our Olympic big guns.

To "Australianise" the look of the uniform (after all, Nike is outfitting 21
other countries) each piece has a small Southern Cross and "waterfall" print
design.

Simply, if going faster, higher and stronger is the objective, Nike has pulled

out every trick in the

design manual.

Steering away from that usual acid-tone of yellow and that garish shade of
green, both colours have been toned back a few pegs.

The yellow is softer and more buttercup-looking while the greens used are
reminiscent of a schoolyard shade and not as tough on the eye.

Track and fielders are going to look like something out of 2001: A Space Odyssey
(they're a year ahead in fact) with full-body, "swift" suits hugging and
embracing every muscle and curve. The suits will also include their heads and
even their wrists.

Our ball sports athletes are in sleeveless, V-neck, "fashion now" T-shirts and
beach volleyballers look like they could have come off the Baywatch set. But at
least, our athletes have talent.

Editorial: Page 30

'They make me feel really proud and really tall. If it was tomorrow, I'd be
ready to play' --Troy Sachs (wheelchair basketballer)

'The fabric is a little bit different for basketball because it's a lot lighter'
-- Boomers guard Shane Heal

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             711 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               October 27, 2000, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

MAKING NEWS

SECTION: SPORTS; SIDELINE; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 225 words



How does shoe leather taste?

A new Nike shoe promises to help runners avoid dangers on the trail, but the
athletic company ran into a snag of its own by insulting the disabled. Nike has
withdrawn an advertisement for the new Air Dri-Goat trail running shoes that
mocks people in wheelchairs. The ad claims the shoe will prevent a runner from
slamming into a tree and "rendering me a drooling, misshapen,
non-extreme-trail-running husk of my former self, forced to roam the Earth in a
motorized wheelchair with my name embossed on one of those cute little license
plates you get at carnivals or state fairs, fastened to the back." The ad
appeared in several outdoor magazines this month. The company has apologized and
killed the ad.

QUESTION OF THE DAY

Who holds the NCAA Division I-A record for most passes in a game?

Answer below.

CHECK IT OUT

DUNGY CHATS: Bucs coach Tony Dungy, working to end a four-game skid, will chat
at 4:30 p.m. today at Buccaneers.com.

QUOTABLE

"You're not dealing

with one of America's politically correct teachers."

- BOB KNIGHT

former Indiana basketball coach after telling several female students to be
quiet Tuesday night during what he said would be his final public appearance in
Indianapolis

ANSWER

Drew Brees of Purdue with 83 attempts against Wisconsin on Oct. 10, 1998. He
completed 55.


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press; Tiger Woods shoots 63 to share the lead
at Walt Disney World Resort.

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                             712 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 26, 2000 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NIKE PULLS A SECOND AD AFTER IT STIRS COMPLAINTS

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 146 words


For the second time in a month, Nike Inc. has withdrawn an advertisement and
apologized after complaints that material intended as humorous was considered
offensive.

Last time, it was a television commercial featuring middle-distance runner Suzy
Favor Hamilton fleeing a chainsaw-wielding maniac in a parody of various horror
movies.

This time, it was a magazine ad that spoofed the dangers of trail running but
contained material that drew complaints that it was insulting to the disabled.

The ad for the Air Dri-Goat trail running shoe claims it will prevent a runner
from slamming into a tree and "rendering me a drooling, misshapen,
non-extreme-trail-running husk of my former self, forced to roam the Earth in a
motorized wheelchair with my name embossed on one of those cute little license
plates you get at carnivals or state fairs, fastened to the back."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: NATIONAL NEWS
Retail

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             719 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                           January 15, 2000, Saturday

Nike shirts cleared

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 55 words


BERLIN: Germany's consumer protection office said yesterday Nike soccer jerseys
withdrawn from stores last week after reports they contained a dangerous
chemical do not present a definitive health hazard. But the office also said the
chemical, tributyltin, used in the shirts to reduce odors from sweating, should
be banned.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             722 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                             April 7, 2000, Friday

Jogger sues Nike

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 68 words


NEW YORK: An orthopaedic surgeon is suing Nike for more than $16 million, saying
shoes made by the footwear giant tripped her and caused permanent injury.

According to Deborah Faryniarz's lawsuit filed in Manhatten, the right shoelace
hooked around the back tab of the left sneaker while she was jogging, spilling
her to the ground.

Dr Faryniarz was pregnant with her first child at the time.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             723 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                November 4, 2000

DIALLING THE WORLD OF SOCCER

SECTION: Pg. 93

LENGTH: 286 words


MANCHESTER United and Nike confirmed the most lucrative deal in the history of
sportswear last night. The 15-year contract, which starts when United's deal
with Umbro ends after next season, will be worth around GBP 300million. Some
United shareholders are upset at allegations that Nike uses child labour - a
practice decried in United's club charter.

ENGLISH fans have petitioned the EC to keep the current transfer system - unless
big clubs begin to dish out more TV money to the lower leagues.

The Football Supporters' Association wrote to European Commissioner Mario Monti,
the man who could effectively scrap fees, urging him to compromise with leading
clubs only if they share a prime source of income.

WEST HAM UNITED manager Harry Redknapp believes England coach Sven Goran
Eriksson should include John Barnes in his backroom staff.

'If Eriksson is looking for somebody with a real understanding of football I
think John Barnes is his man,' said Redknapp of the former England star, who was
sacked as Celtic chief coach last February.

SOUTHAMPTON captain Jason Dodd has signed a two-year extension on his contract
to keep him at the club until June 2003.

Dodd, 30, has been granted a testimonial after 11 years and more than 300
appearances. He said: 'I was out of contract in the summer and getting nervous,
so it's pleasing they want me to stay.'

REAL MADRID'S Luis Figo has admitted he would like to play in the Premiership.
The Portugual international, who is 28 today, signed for Real from Primera Liga
rivals Barcelona for a world record GBP 37.5million. Figo has a six-year deal
with Real, who reportedly inserted a GBP 100 million buyout clause in his
contract.


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             724 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               October 30, 2000, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

MAKING NEWS

SECTION: SPORTS; SIDELINE; BUCS EXTRA; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 74 words



Knight out, Nike in

When Indiana University fired Bob Knight, he took his private contract with
Converse with him. The Hoosiers needed shoes, so the school signed with Nike.
"We just needed to have equipment," interim basketball coach Mike Davis said.
"There's no money in the deal, just equipment. Our guys needed shoes. We just
got our shoes like two days before we had our first practice. Some guys didn't
have shoes then."


LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, (2); Duffy Waldorf; Sheldon Keefe

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                             729 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                              May 26, 2000, Friday

Woods stays with Nike ball

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 91

LENGTH: 203 words


DUBLIN, Ohio: Tiger Woods will again have the new Nike golf ball in his bag when
he defends his Memorial title at Muirfield Village starting today.

Woods used the ball for the first time in competition while failing to retain
his title in Hamburg last week, but refused to disclose when, or if, he would
permanently switch from the Titleist ball he has used throughout his career.

With the US Open at Pebble Beach looming next month, Hal Sutton, the man who
beat the world No. 1 down the stretch for the prestigious Players Championship,
warned that Woods could face a period of adjustment.

"There will be an adjustment period, I don't care how good a player you are,"
said Sutton.

"That ball will react differently than the ball he has been playing. It can be a
very dramatic change to a golfer's life.

"Tiger is going from a wound ball to a multi-covered one  . . .  and if that
ball responds differently than you thought it should have, it aggravates you and
you can't get your mind off that," Sutton said.

Woods surrendered a final-round lead for the first time since 1996 when he lost
to England's Lee Westwood last Sunday, but contended that he has no fears
experimenting with the new ball.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             730 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 April 6, 2000

Doc sues Nike for GBP 7m after tripping up

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 61 words


A NEW York doctor is sueing sportswear giant Nike for GBP 7 million, saying
trainers made by the company tripped her up. Othopeadic surgeon Deborah
Faryniarz was pregnant when she fell while jogging and claims she permanently
injured her wrist.  She says her shoelace hooked around the back of the
Certitude Cross-training shoe, sending her sprawling.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 Manchester Evening News


                             731 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Denver Post

                      September 15, 2000 Friday 2D EDITION

Nike deal reportedly to pay Woods $ 100 million

BYLINE: Denver Post Staff and Wire Reports,

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D-01

LENGTH: 656 words


Fresh off his record-breaking summer of golf, Tiger Woods is  on the verge of
signing a $ 100 million endorsement contract with  Nike believed to be the
richest in sports, The Associated Press  has learned.

The money is coming in so fast that Woods, 24, is already  well on his way to
becoming sports' first $ 1 billion man. Michael  Jordan currently earns $ 69
million a year, according to Forbes  magazine.

Woods has made $ 8.3 million on the golf course alone this  year, and an
estimated $ 47 million overall. His new Nike contract  would earn him $ 20
million alone, up from the estimated $ 8 million  to $ 12 million Nike has paid
him annually since 1996.

Mark Steinberg, Woods' agent at IMG, declined to discuss  specifics of the deal
Thursday, only to say it is an 'outstanding  contract.'

'We are within days of a signature,' he said.

'It compensates Tiger not just for what he's done with Nike,  but what he has
done for golf and sports.'

Woods' previous contract with Nike was said to be $ 40 million  to $ 60 million
over five years. He was used heavily in their  advertisements and established
his own line of clothing and shoes.

A source close to the negotiations, speaking on condition of  anonymity,
described it as the 'largest contract in sports  marketing history,' worth about
$ 100 million over five years.

'There are so many different revenue streams,' the source  said. 'It's
impossible to calculate what the end result will be.'

Nike Golf president Bob Wood described the contract as  'pretty creative.'

'It's not often you get a chance to work with somebody who's  the best in the
world at what they do,' he said. 'Working with  Tiger Woods has created an
incredible amount of positive energy  about Nike Golf and Nike.'

While Wood also declined to discuss contract details, he did  say the amount was
partly tied to sales.

In just four years, he has won all four major championships,  becoming, at 24,
the youngest player to do so. He set the scoring  record in each of them, and he
has attracted a record number of TV  viewers.

With three tournaments still to play, his nine victories this  year are the most
in one PGA Tour season since 1950, and he is on  pace to shatter the season
scoring average set by Byron Nelson in  1945.

In June, he gave Nike a huge lift when he switched to the  Nike Tour Accuracy
ball. He went on to win the U.S. Open at Pebble  Beach by 15 strokes, the
largest winning margin in the 140-year  history of major championship golf.

Woods also became the first player to finish a U.S. Open in  double figures
below par, a 12-under 272. A month later, he won  the British Open at St.
Andrews with a 19-under 269 - another  major championship record.

Last month, he became the first player in the stroke-play era  of the PGA
Championship to win back-to-back titles, outlasting Bob  May in a three-hole
playoff.

The Nike Golf president said its market share for balls has  increased from
about 1 percent in April to nearly 4 percent.

The switch to the Nike ball did not have a major impact on  contract
negotiations, Wood said. Nike also is considering a move  toward golf clubs.

Woods devotes a substantial amount of time to Nike, and the  Beaverton, Ore.,
company has used him effectively in TV ads.

Perhaps the most famous was not even planned. During a break  from a commercial
of Woods hitting balls with dozens of hackers on  a range, he began bouncing a
ball on his wedge - behind his back,  between his legs - before whacking it in
midair.

His father, Earl, said last week that Woods would do more for  Nike than Michael
Jordan ever did.

Earlier this year, Woods signed an endorsement deal with  Buick worth $ 30
million over five years and carries its logo on  his bag. In all, Woods has
endorsement contracts with 11 companies.


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Woods Woods' deals

                        Copyright 2000 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             733 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Sunday Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           November 26, 2000, Sunday

Shox for the feet

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 99 words


IT took 16 years, but Nike has found a way to put some spring in your step -- by
putting the spring in your shoes.

Their latest range of athletic shoes, Shox, are Nike's most advanced piece of
footwear, taking almost two decades to research and develop.

Rather than the bulky rubber polymer heels used in most running shoes, Shox
contain four spring-like polyurethane foam columns that absorb much of the shock
usually taken into ankles, heels and back -- shock absorbers for the feet.

Each of the columns collapses like a spring then expands to propel the runner's
foot upwards.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: STE

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             740 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                      September 20, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL

A monopoly of one: Tiger Woods dominates endorsements for golfers like he rules
on course, Doug Ferguson writes.

BYLINE: Doug Ferguson

SECTION: Sports; B12 / Front

LENGTH: 600 words


The total purse on the PGA Tour in 1996, the year Tiger Woods turned pro, was
$69.1 million U.S. It might not be too long before he makes that much in a year,
on and off the course.

Once his new five-year contract with Nike Inc. takes effect next August, Woods
will bring in about $54 million each year from endorsement deals he has with 12
companies, according to this week's issue of Golf World.

The magazine cited a variety of sources familiar with the contracts, which range
from the $100-million deal Woods signed Friday with Nike to a five-year,
$10-million deal with the company that performed Lasik eye surgery on Woods a
year ago.

On the course, Woods already has earned close to $8.3 million this year, with
three tournaments still to play.

He receives a reported $1-million appearance fee when he plays overseas, such as
the Johnnie Walker Classic in Thailand, and he also plays the unofficial Grand
Slam of Golf and his own Williams World Challenge.

While Woods grew up in a middle-class home, such riches are nothing new since he
turned pro and signed a five-year, $40-million deal with Nike. Since then, he
has won 24 times on the PGA Tour, including the career Grand Slam.

''Money has never been important to Tiger,'' said his father, Earl Woods. ''If
it was, Tiger would have about five times, or maybe seven times, as many
endorsement dollars as he does have.

''He'd be a hell of a lot richer. Obviously, it would curtail his development
and affect his performance.''

Money hasn't done much to change Woods, who has raised the standards in golf. He
became the first player since 1953 to win three straight majors, and already, at
age 24, has enough tour victories to achieve a lifetime exemption.

''Probably the single most thing I admire about Tiger Woods is he can sign a
$100-million deal today and wake up tomorrow with the same desire to be the best
in the world,'' Hal Sutton said Monday when told of the new Nike contract.

According to Golf World, Woods' biggest deals after that with Nike are with
Buick, EA Sports and Asahi Beverages, each worth about $30 million over five
years. He also has a five-year deal with American Express that the magazine said
was worth $26 million.

Perhaps the greatest example of Woods' endorsement power is the deal with TLC
Laser Eye Centres, which he signed in February.

Among the first golfers to have the Lasik surgery were Fred Funk and former PGA
champion Mark Brooks.

Mike Biggs of Gaylord Sports Entertainment, which represents Brooks, once said
he approached the company with the idea of a ''TLC team'' on the PGA Tour. The
players involved would not have had such a high profile as Woods, and the
proposal was not nearly as lucrative.

''We were told ... they had just turned a profit and could not justify spending
endorsement money on a golfer,'' Biggs said. ''Six months later, we start
hearing rumours about Tiger reaching a seven-figure deal with TLC.''

Woods gives TLC nothing more than a testimonial about his experience with Lasik,
and gets $2 million.

Where does the money go?

Earl Woods said his son puts the money earned from tournaments into a fund to
build a house in Orlando, Florida. Some of the endorsement money goes to the
Tiger Woods Foundation, which was created to provide more minority participation
in golf.

''Many people want Tiger to design golf courses or take over joint-capital
ventures,'' his father said.

''He doesn't need inherited problems. Nothing comes between Tiger and what he is
supposed to be doing.''


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CP Color Photo: Frank Gunn, The Canadian Press / When his new agreement
with Nike takes effect next August, Tiger Woods will bring in about $54 million
in endorsements annually, Golf World magazine reports.

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             741 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            June 24, 2000, Saturday

Suit fit for super-heroes

BYLINE: KATRINA BEIKOFF

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 100

LENGTH: 482 words


AUSTRALIAN Olympic track athletes, including Cathy Freeman, will be able to wear
super-hero-like, hooded full-body suits at the Sydney Games.

The Nike Swift Suit was unveiled in the US yesterday, with world 100m champion
Marion Jones already describing it as "awesome".

The Australian Olympic Committee has cleared the way for Australian athletes to
wear the head-to-toe outfit produced by Nike, the offical team uniform provider.

An AOC spokeswoman said all athletes could wear the Nike Swift Suit because it
was not classified as technical equipment but apparel, and Nike had not claimed
it enhanced performance.

Nike technical designers produced the skin-tight suit, which has a hood with
mesh earholes, to improve a sprinter's aerodynamics.

The suit is being pushed for sprinting events up to the 400m, in which Freeman
is hoping to win gold.

The bodysuit has five different fabric styles that sit around different muscle
groups and are designed to help provide optimum temperatures for those muscles.

The seams are all in the back of the suit, the front zipper is hidden and the
sleeves extend to cover part of the hands -- all of which have been designed to
reduce air-flow separation.

Australian 100m champion Matt Shirvington's coach, Michael Khmel, said the star
sprinter would be prepared to trial the suit if it was made available to him.

However, for adidas-sponsored Shirvington to wear his own sponsor's new bodysuit
instead of the Nike version, he would have to apply to the AOC to have the
adidas suit classed as technical equipment.

Ian Thorpe, who faced the same issue because he wanted to wear his adidas
bodysuit instead of togs by official team-provider Speedo, successfully applied
to the AOC to have his full bodysuit classed as technical equipment -- enabling
all Australian Games swimmers to wear their preferred suit.

Footwear is the only apparel worn by sprinters classed as "technical equipment",
which means they can wear any brand of shoes they want but all other apparel
must be team issue.

Adidas marketing manager Rob Mills said yesterday that the Nike suit was vastly
different to the adidas version, which helped a sprinter go faster by reducing
muscle vibration.

Adidas had previously produced a sprinting suit with a hood -- worn by sprint
superstar Florence Griffith-Joyner in 1988 at the Seoul Olympics -- but
discarded the idea, Mills said.

A hooded adidas suit had been tested by Olympic champion Donovan Bailey two
years ago but was dumped because the hood prevented sprinters seeing opponents
during a race.

Khmel said Shirvington would still consider wearing the hooded Nike version if
it helped him run faster. He added: "It doesn't hurt to try it, and if it does
work he will wear it. It doesn't matter if it's adidas or Nike."

All American athletes heading to Sydney are being offered the Swift Suit.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             746 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 23, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Nike Ad: Just a Spoof

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 73 words



To the Editor:

Unlike a Sept. 21 letter writer, I was neither stunned nor appalled by the Nike
ad featuring the American runner Suzy Hamilton "sprinting away from a
chain-saw-wielding maniac."

I am always happy to see an amusing spoof of a silly movie genre, which is all
that this ad is. Truth and reality rarely come together as one, especially in
television advertising.

DEBORAH HAHN
Levittown, Pa., Sept. 21, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             748 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                Guardian Weekly

                               September 6, 2000

Nike in the dock

BYLINE: Mike Kiely

SECTION: SPORT; Sports Diary; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 126 words


Allegations that Tiger Woods does use the ball advertised as his playing
companion has landed the sports goods giant Nike in a San Francisco court,
accused of "unfair business practice".  A non-profit-making organisation, Public
Remedies Inc, claims that the world's No 1 golfer does not play with the
Precision Tour Accuracy ball but one that has "different composition and
performance characteristics specially made for him and not available to the
general public".

The row hasn't affected the form of Woods, who matched the course record at the
Firestone South course with a second-round score of 61 before going on to pick
up the NEC Invitational trophy, finishing 21-under for the tournament, and 11
shots clear of his nearest rival, Philip Price.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Publication, Ltd.


                             751 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           September 26, 2000 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

Make it a hot-shoe shuffle or Greene's flying Nike won't soar in value;
Olympics News

BYLINE: Aban Contractor

SECTION: OLYMPICS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 326 words


US champion Maurice Greene's famous golden shoe could be worth between $US50,000
and $US100,000 to Wagga jeweller Ben Harper but only if he sells it soon.

The 20yearold Mr Harper caught the shoe after Greene flung it into the crowd at
the Olympic stadium on Saturday night.

The managing director of Lawsons, Mr James Badgery, said if the shoe was sold on
eBay, the online auction site, it could make Mr Harper a small fortune by
attracting wealthy American buyers.

"It's unlikely to increase in value it has its value now," Mr Badgery said
yesterday.

"It's a 100 metre gold medal shoe. The shoe of the Sydney 2000 Olympics."

Mr Badgery said Lawsons had not been contacted by prospective buyers, in part
because Mr Harper had said he would keep it forever.

The Sydney auction house was helping to oversee Olympic Aid online, a fundraiser
selling Games sporting memorabilia to help underprivileged children in Australia
and overseas.

The signed swimsuit of 4x200m freestyle relay gold medallist Bill Kirby had
received 36 bids, the highest at $26,100.

And swimming goggles belonging to the man who swam alone in a 100m freestyle
qualifying heat, Equatorial Guinea's Eric Moussambani, had received 68 bids, the
highest $3,077. Obtaining Olympic memorabilia is not only a passion of those out
to make a quick dollar.

JeanFrancois Pahud would like to get his hands on the Prime Minister, Mr John
Howard's Olympic security pass.

As the curator of the Olympic Museum in Lausanne, he and his sixmember team are
in Sydney collecting Games memorabilia.

They too would like one of Greene's running shoes, but say that is unlikely
before the relay final.

Mr Pahud said the museum was not only interested in gold medal winners.

Mr Moussambani's swim suit had made it into the collection.

"Team books, The Sydney Morning Herald, medallists' autographs, photos of the
finish in track and field competitions with the signature of the gold medallist,
all are being collected," Mr Pahud said.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: Maurice Greene's goldwinning Nike.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             752 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    Sunday Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                           November 26, 2000, Sunday

Breaking new ground

BYLINE: SAMANTHA AMJADALI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 518 words


IT took 16 years, but Nike has found a way to put spring in our step -- by
putting the spring in our shoes.

Shox, Nike's latest range of athletic shoes, is also its most technologically
advanced.

Replacing the typically bulky, rubber polymer heels used in most running shoes
are four spring-like polyurethane foam columns that absorb much of the shock
usually taken in ankles, heels and back.

Each of the columns collapses like a spring on impact with the ground then
expands to its original height, helping to propel the runner's foot upwards.

"The shoes absorb the shock of impact and deflect it through the shock columns
in the shoe as your heel comes off the ground," Nike product manager Paul Crough
said.

Springs in shoes is hardly a new idea. The United States Patents and Trademarks
Office has shelves lined with prototypes dating back almost a century.

Nike researchers were inspired to work on Shox when the company heard about
Harvard University's spring-loaded racing track, which was helping runners to
markedly faster times.

The track -- designed by Tom McMahon, a young professor of biology and applied
mechanics -- contained layers of calibrated plywood and polyurethane which
created an unusual springiness that reduced both running times and injuries.

Nike hired Prof. McMahon to apply the same principals to running shoes.

Bruce Kilgore, now Nike's director of advanced research, took up the project
when his colleague returned to Harvard.

The project was put on hold several times over the next decade as the company
concentrated on its Nike Air range.

Mr Kilgore and his team tried all sorts of materials from piano hinges to
cantilevers (picture a V-shaped bracket on its side). They even tried inserting
steel springs into the heel, but that proved a tad painful.

In 1990, they found a viable model -- the four booster thrusters on space
shuttles -- and began working on the four-column model that has been
incorporated into Shox sneakers.

The shoes will not be released until December 6, so their comfort is still in
question. However, the athletic shoe review website www.kicksology.net advises
users need to break the shoes in before they begin to provide any benefit.

"After my first day of wear, I was ready to give Shox a negative review," Prof.
K said.

A senior reviewer at Kicksology, he was talking about BB4, the dedicated
basketball shoe.

"Not since my days of playing for hours at a time on asphalt in a pair of Cons
(Converse shoes) had I felt so much pain in my feet and shins," he said.

Prof. K consulted the experts at www.niketalk.com, a site devoted to Nike shoes.
They suggested he needed to wear the shoes more than twice.

"Without the pain, I began to appreciate the other positives about the BB4s, the
most impressive being the stability," he said.

"Shox BB4 is perhaps the ultimate defensive players' shoe because it allows for
an incredible level of agility in all directions."

Shox will be available as runners (R4), cross-trainers (XT4) and basketball
boots (BB4). They will cost between $250 and $260.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: SHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             754 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 19, 2000, Thursday

Nike deal close

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 45 words


Manchester United, the Premier League football club, is to confirm its Pounds
300 million kit sponsorship deal with Nike within the next week. The deal is
expected to begin in 2002. Umbro, United's current kit supplier, is said to be
considering legal action.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited


                             755 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 July 20, 2000

Thieves lining up

SECTION: Crime: ROBBERY, Pg.7

LENGTH: 121 words


THIEVES are shopping for sports and designer clothing on washing lines in
Llanelli.

Police are now warning residents leaving clothes out overnight is a gift for
criminals.

In the latest incident black Nike shorts, blue Umbro shorts, navy Adidas
trousers, a white Nike T-shirt, a black Adidas T-shirt and a black Puma hold-all
were stolen from a line at the back of a house in High Street. Officers are
investigating the incident, which occurred between 9.30pm on Saturday and 10am
on Sunday.

A spokesman said: "We are warning the public not to leave washing out unattended
overnight. It is like pegging out GBP 10 notes on the line."

(Anyone with information is asked to contact Llanelli police on 01554 772222.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2000 South Wales Evening Post


                             757 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 17, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Sports of The Times;
Endorsements Help Woods Become the World's Best Conglomerate

BYLINE: By DAVE ANDERSON

SECTION: Section 8; Page 7; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 766 words


TIGER WOODS is not just the world's best golfer; he's also the world's best
conglomerate.

Even before his new five-year, $85 million Nike contract that will more than
double his current five-year, $40 million Nike deal, which expires next
September, his 11 endorsement contracts were 2 more than his 9 tournament
victories this year.

If you add up those 11 contracts that his International Management Group gurus
have negotiated, his endorsement income this year will surpass $50 million, plus
at least $12 million this year in worldwide prize money and appearance fees.

His endorsement total of more than $50 million will be significantly more than
Michael Jordan's reported endorsement high of $35 million a year when he was
soaring through National Basketball Association arenas.

And for all the millions that those 11 companies are paying the 24-year-old
Woods as their ambassador, he's a bargain. He's now what Pele, Muhammad Ali and
Jordan were in other years -- the most recognizable sports figure on the planet.
And when it's time to renegotiate the contracts, all those companies will find,
as Nike did, that he'll be more expensive next time. Much more expensive.

In addition to his Nike deal, he has contracts with American Express, Buick,
Wheaties, Rolex, Titleist golf equipment, Golf Digest magazine, Electronic Arts
video games, TLC Laser Eye Centers, CBS SportsLine and Asahi coffee in Japan.

In a way, those 11 contracts represent a career grand slam in endorsements that
matches the career Grand Slam in golf that he completed this year by adding the
United States Open and the British Open to his 1997 Masters and 1999
Professional Golfers Association victory while winning seven other tournaments,
including a second P.G.A. title.

But there's a controversial connection to his contracts with Nike and Titleist
that developed from the Nike commercial in which he keeps bouncing a golf ball
on a club, then hits the ball with the club as if with a fungo bat.

That commercial developed accidentally during the shooting of another Nike
commercial when Woods, between takes, was noticed bouncing a golf ball on a club
just for the fun of it. With the cameras rolling, Woods did it on the fourth
take.

At the time, Titleist, which was paying Woods to play and endorse its golf ball
and clubs, objected because the commercial made it appear that he was using a
Nike ball. In his renegotiated Titleist contract, he is still being paid to use
their clubs, but Titleist is not allowed to use his name or likeness in its
advertising.

Nike, meanwhile, was developing the golf ball that Woods has used since May --
the ball with a reported harder inner core than that in the Nike ball being sold
in golf shops, the ball that he hits so far that some people were wondering if
maybe it was a "hot" ball.

"It's a legal ball," said Dick Rugge, the senior technical director at the
United States Golf Association in Far Hills, N.J., where clubs and balls are
subjected to tests for distance, initial velocity, diameter, weight and
symmetry. "Nike submitted 14 different versions of that ball to us last
December. The one that Tiger liked and uses, other pros tried that particular
ball too, but chose not to use it."

All golf balls may look identical, but they vary with the hardness of the
material, the thickness of the cover, the size of the core.

"Tiger isn't winning all these tournaments because of that Nike ball," Rugge
said. "He's winning because he's a different breed of cat."

Until another golfer rises to that different cat's level, about the only threat
to Woods is Woods himself. He's so skilled and so strong, he doesn't hesitate to
hit a ball from a lie that could be hazardous to his health, especially the
health of his hands and wrists. He's hit the ball off small rocks. He's hit the
ball from so close behind a tree, his follow-through jammed the clubhead into
the trunk. At the Buick Open the week before the recent P.G.A. Championship, he
hit a ball off a tree root and winced from the pain in his hand and wrist.

"It was just a stinger," he said later. "I hit the root and it hurt quite a bit
initially, then as I was walking to my ball, it all went away. But I took out
that root pretty good."

If he persists in risking his hands and wrist, sooner or later a root or a rock
is going to be stronger than even Tiger Woods is. Sooner or later, a root or a
rock could take him out pretty good, too; out of the PGA Tour until that injury
heals. That could disrupt the dominance of both the world's best golfer and the
world's best conglomerate.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: More commercials: Tiger Woods has 85 million reasons to smile.
(Associated Press)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             759 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Denver Post

                       July 13, 2000 Thursday 2D EDITION

He swings, she swings Two Post staff members share their golfing experiences as
students at the Nike Learning Center at Park Hill Golf Course

BYLINE: By Lori Punko, Denver Post Sports Writer,

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D-12

LENGTH: 412 words


I'm not headed for the LPGA Tour. I'm not even sure how many  strokes I've
shaved off my game. But after a series of lessons at  the Nike Learning Center,
I am sure that I am hitting the ball  consistently better.

In a series of four 11/2-hour lessons, called 'Tee It Up 1,'  Geoff Greig,
senior director of instruction at Park Hill Golf  Course, took five of us
through hitting with irons and woods,  chipping and putting, and playing out of
the sand.

The series was aimed at beginners with minimal golf knowledge.  But even as the
most experienced golfer in the group (playing  casually for about 11/2 years), I
learned a few details about the  game. For example, if you are in a bunker or
water hazard, you are  penalized if you touch the ground with your club before
striking  the ball.

But beginners, never fear. Those rules need not apply for now.  The Nike
Learning Center encourages beginners to 'adjust' the  rules to make the game
more enjoyable. Park Hill, for example, has  set up special forward tees to
decrease the yardage of the course  for beginners.

The Nike Learning Center hopes if new golfers can come out and  enjoy playing,
they'll keep coming back.

The Tee It Up program offers students plenty of opportunities to  do just that.
The $ 149 package includes six hours of instruction,  five rounds of golf,
clinics with discounted golf and other  bonuses. They are planning tournaments
for Nike Learning Center  participants.

The center tries to make it easy to learn the game - from  opportunities to play
to the instruction itself.

Instead of telling students to hold the club this way and stand  that way, Grieg
explained how the elements of a golf swing work:  how the club should hit the
ball and how changing the arc of the  swing or shifting your weight impact the
relationship between the  ball and club.

Sounds complicated for a beginner class? Not really. I found it  much more
beneficial to understand what I was doing with my swing  and how I could adjust
than merely imitating an action I was shown.

I've hit the golf course twice since the lessons and found I was  able to apply
what I had learned, and my game has improved. I'll  be practicing this summer,
but golf being what it is, look for me  in Tee It Up 2 next summer.

For more information on the Nike Learning Center at Park Hill,  call
1-877-312-GOLF or check out www.nikegolflearning.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Denver Post /Hyoung Chang Geoff Greig, senior director of
instruction at Park Hill Golf Course, works with The Post's Adam Thompson during
a recent Tee It Up 1 lesson.  Greig, despite having four or five students in a
class, gives each golfer individual instruction. Here, he watches Lori Punko
work on her swing with her 3-wood.

                        Copyright 2000 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             761 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             June 10, 2000 Saturday

Air quality

BYLINE: Deborah Fulsang

SECTION: FASHION & DESIGN; STUFF; Pg. R26

LENGTH: 158 words


Although technology has transformed the running shoe into a complex piece of
fitness equipment, Oregon-based Nike has simplified the summer sneaker. Billed
as the T-shirt for your feet, its new unisex Air Presto comes in sizes XXS to
XL. Each size spans about three traditional sizes.

Inspired by Nike classics such as the 1985 Air Sock Racer and Trainer and the
Air Harache, company designers experimented with taking out the material at the
side of the shoe (the V-notch), below the runner's ankle, and found it relieved
tension and allowed the shoe to expand. The result is a super-soft sneaker with
variable fit possibilities, which looks like a sock within a sandal. The
lightweight design, in seven colour combinations including white/poppy,
white/Atlantic blue and grey/orange blaze, hits store shelves this month.
Although they can be worn for daily training, at $129.95, they might just become
the newest fitness-minded fashion accessory.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2000 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             762 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                       APRIL 13, 2000 Thursday SF EDITION

ANKLE HAS SANCHEZ LIMPING HOME INSTEAD OF IMPRESSING THE NBA HONCHOS AT THE NIKE
DESERT CLASSIC, THE FORMER TEMPLE PLAYER IS HURT AGAIN.

BYLINE: Mike Jensen, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. E05

LENGTH: 260 words


Pepe Sanchez, hoping to use this week's Nike Desert Classic in Phoenix to
solidify his NBA draft standing, sprained his right ankle Tuesday night during
the first practice of the week-long showcase for top college seniors.

The X-rays yesterday showed no fracture, but the point guard, who just completed
his Temple career, is out of the three-day tournament. He plans to fly back to
Philadelphia tomorrow afternoon.

"He was down, kind of not believing what happened, the first practice," said
George Severini, the soccer coach at Haverford High School and a close friend
who talked to Sanchez late Tuesday night. "He said he went for a rebound, came
down, didn't place it properly. They had been practicing for awhile. It was like
a game. He was feeling very comfortable about himself, very much in command of
himself and what he was doing. He was feeling very confident that he could do
pretty well."

Sanchez knew that this week's games were his chance to show the NBA that he is
capable of being a man-to-man defender and that he can could run a team in a
different style than that employed by the Owls.

Instead, teams will be asking about his ankle, the same one he injured in the
preseason and then re-injured in the season opener, forcing him to miss eight
games.

It was during those games that those watching Temple struggle learned how
valuable Sanchez was to the Owls. Now, if the ankle is up to it, Sanchez will
have to consider playing in June's NBA pre-draft camp in Chicago. That is the
last competitive showcase for NBA scouts.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             763 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                     February 6, 2000 Sunday FINAL EDITION

NIKE GRADUATE RINGS IN AT AT[T]
GOGEL IS IN THE TITLE HUNT AGAIN AFTER POSTING A SECOND-ROUND 68 AT POPPY HILLS

SECTION: SPORTS; Pebble Beach Notebook; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 491 words


PEBBLE BEACH Matt Gogel proved he could win on the Buy.com Tour, capturing a
career record-tying six titles during the past four years. Now he's out to prove
another point, that he can beat the world's best golfers on the PGA Tour.

After two rounds of the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am, Gogel is in title
contention. He owned sole possession of third place at 7-under par 137, just
four shots behind leader Vijay Singh and three behind Notah Begay III. Gogel
shot a second-round 68 on Saturday at Poppy Hills, a round that included an
eagle at the par-4 first hole.

Gogel earned his PGA Tour card by finishing seventh on the former Nike Tour's
money list last year. Two weeks ago he was in the final group in the final round
of the Bob Hope Classic. But he shot 71 and settled for a tie for seventh.

"I felt good, but maybe I was tight and tentative with my putter," Gogel said of
his final round at the Hope.

This time Gogel plans to stay relaxed and vows to concentrate on the shot at
hand, not the ultimate result.

"We're only halfway through this tournament," Gogel said. "There's a lot of golf
left. I have to stay patient. There's a long way to go to be in that final
group."

Hot times

Paul Azinger had the ultimate good news, bad news round at Poppy Hills. Starting
on the back nine, he shot 40 for his first nine holes. He followed with a
7-under 29 on the front, breaking the course front-nine record by three shots.
Azinger had an eagle at the par-4 fifth and five birdies. For the tournament, he
was at 1-over 145.

Weather watch

The Weather Channel's forecast for today's scheduled third round calls for
patchy morning fog but no rain, with a high temperature of 66 and wind from the
southwest at 10-20 mph. Increasing clouds are expected by the afternoon with
rain possible tonight and into Monday. "It will be basically dry during play
(today). So we should get that third round in," meteorologist Mike McClellan
said. "There will be another cold front coming in. At this point it doesn't look
like anything real heavy. We'll have to watch it real close."

Local connections

Keith Clearwater, a former Northgate High School golfer, shot a second-round 75
at Pebble Beach, leaving him at 2 over par for the tournament and tied for 67th.
Ex-Stanford and Amador Valley High School golfer Joel Kribel was tied for 96th
at 4 over after shooting a 74 at Poppy Hills. Campolindo High graduate Dave
Wilcox was in 179th place at 24 over. He shot a 78 at Spyglass Hill.

Chip shots

Brad Fabel and David Morland had hole-in-ones Saturday. Fabel aced the 15th hole
at Spyglass Hill. Morland had his hole-in-one at Pebble Beach's fifth hole. ...
For the eighth straight year, the tournament was played under
lift-clean-and-place rules because of rainy weather. ... Perry Moss tied a
Spyglass Hill back-nine record Friday when he fired a 31. That was 10 shots
better than he shot on his front nine.

Eric Gilmore

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Ken Griffey Jr. sinks a long putt at No. 1. (Bob Pepping, Times)

                       Copyright 2000 Contra Costa Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             764 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            June 21, 2000, Wednesday

Nike attacked over Freeman ad

BYLINE: Tanya Targett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 506 words


NIKE has been accused of exploiting Aboriginal sprint star Cathy Freeman and the
nation's reconciliation debate in an ad featuring athletes saying sorry.

National Sorry Day Committee co-chair Audrey Kinnear said Nike was heartlessly
and shamelessly trivialising the nation's "Sorry" campaign with its latest ad
"No Apologies".

She said her committee would call on Nike to withdraw the ad.

The advertisement features 20 athletes looking at the camera as the word "sorry"
appears on screen, with Aboriginal sprinter Freeman mouthing the words: "Can we
talk about this later?"

Nike yesterday said its "No Apologies" advertising campaign -- the first stage
of the company's Olympic campaign -- was in no way related to the reconciliation
debate or Prime Minister John Howard's refusal to apologise to the stolen
generation.

But Ms Kinnear said the ad was an irresponsible and cruel ploy which undermined
Freeman's credibility when she could not afford further controversy.

Nick Bideau, Freeman's former coach and business manager, is suing the
high-profile athlete, claiming she breached her contract with his management
company.

Peter Jess, a fellow director of the company set up in May 1996 to promote
Freeman and other elite Australian athletes, is also suing the 27-year-old star.

"We want them to remove it from air, not only for us but also for Cathy because
Cathy really can't afford to get involved in any more controversy and they might
not realise it but it may have an impact on Cathy's credibility," said Ms
Kinnear, who is a member of the Stolen Generation.

"It's insensitive of Nike to use her that way because it's going to hurt our
people . . . the use of the word 'sorry', so many times, straight after the
reconciliation walk in Sydney.

"They're using her but also they are capitalising on the word we want to hear
from governments and other Australians to right the wrongs of past history."

Freeman's spokesman Richard Amos said he was waiting to talk to the sprint star
and could not comment.

Ms Kinnear said the Sorry Day Committee would probably make an official
statement asking Nike to withdraw the ad for Cathy's sake and that of other
indigenous Australians.

"I can't understand how intelligent people could not contemplate how this would
impact on us," Ms Kinnear said. "It's devastating."

Nike marketing director Brent Scrimshaw denied the company was commenting on or
capitalising on the reconciliation debate.

"This advertisement features 20 athletes -- all of whom have to make choices in
order to become the best they can be," Mr Scrimshaw said.

"Our only intention is for people to gain an appreciation of these sacrifices
and an insight into the lives of athletes. (Cathy's) reference to 'Can we talk
about this later?' illustrates that all she wants to do is focus on running --
she's too busy to stop and talk. It's a sacrifice."

He said a second component to Nike's Olympic advertising campaign, giving
further insight into the lives of elite athletes, would be launched soon.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             765 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 31, 2000, Tuesday

Nike apologises for advert slur on disabled

BYLINE: By Barbie Dutter, Sydney

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 125 words

A day after the Paralympic Games closed, Australia was in uproar over an
advertisement for the sportswear company Nike describing disabled people as
"drooling, misshapen husks".

The advertisement for the "Air Dri-Goat" running shoe appears in several
American magazines available in Australia. A paragraph reads: "How can a trail
running shoe . . . help me avoid compressing my spinal cord into a Slinky on the
side of some unsuspecting conifer, thereby rendering me a drooling misshapen . .
. husk of my former self, forced to roam the earth in a motorised wheelchair".

After being bombarded by e-mail complaints, the company apologised on its
internet site and said it would withdraw the advertisement.
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 Telegraph Group Limited


                             766 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   September 19, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

A Repugnant TV Ad

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 234 words


NBC HAS done one of its Olympics sponsors, Nike, Inc., a major favor. The
network killed a Nike ad that in our view was about as tasteless, exploitative
and inappropriate as an ad can be. A Nike vice president said the ad was
supposed to be funny--"ironic"--and that NBC had "preapproved" it, suggesting
the network then caved in the face of what were apparently numerous complaints.
Sometimes cave-ins are wise.

The ad had no redeeming features. To sell tennis shoes, it converted a subject
that for many women is a source of genuine fear--that they will encounter
violence against which they can't defend themselves--into a macabre joke. The ad
was entitled Horror. A chainsaw-wielding man in a hockey mask breaks in on a
young woman in a remote cabin. She screams and runs; he chases her but can't
keep up; she escapes as he is shown panting for breath. A question flashes on
the screen: "Why Sport?," followed by the answer: "You'll live longer." What a
laugh. Another spoof on horror shows, deftly done. It's even scary. Who could
possibly object?

We're sure the ad was tested and found effective among whatever group the
company was trying to reach. But it's not a funny subject, surely not to women
who have been or are frightened of becoming victims; nor is it a fit subject for
children, millions of whom are watching the games. Nike can find a better way to
sell its products.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                             767 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                    September 7, 2000 Thursday Final Edition

Davis Love III says no to Nike ball

SOURCE: The Canadian Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. E06

LENGTH: 128 words

DATELINE: OAKVILLE


Davis Love III turned down an offer from Nike Golf to play a ball similar to the
one used by Tiger Woods, agreeing yesterday to a multi-year contract extension
with Acushnet Co. to stick with Titleist.

"Our entire company is ecstatic that Davis will remain part of the Acushnet Co.
family for many years to come," chairman and CEO Wally Uihlein said in a
statement.

He declined to disclose terms of the deal, only that Love will continue playing
Titleist clubs and balls, and wear gloves and shoes by FootJoy, another Acushnet
brand.

"When someone is throwing piles of money at you, you've got to take a look,"
Love said. "It was awfully tempting. We're talking a lot of money . . . more
than what you're used to. In the end, I wanted to be with Titleist."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 2000 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                             769 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 12, 2000, Monday

FOOTBALL: NIKE CUP - BIG SCORE FOR NIALL;
 S AFRICA 1 REP OF IRE 2

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 111 words


NIALL Quinn's record-equalling 20th goal for his country helped the Republic
finish runners-up in the Nike Cup in Giants Stadium, New Jersey.

Quinn drew level with Frank Stapleton's tally with a towering header from Mark
Kennedy's 68th-minute free-kick.

The Irish, who finished the tournament unbeaten, had fallen behind to a 14th
-minute goal by South African captain Shaun Bartlett.

They equalised two minutes from the interval when Oxford keeper Andre Arendse
palmed Stephen McPhail's curling corner into his own net.

Earlier in the day the United States captured the Cup for the first time since
1995 with an impressive 3-0 win over Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: QUINN: Winner

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             771 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 17, 2000

Style: Oversubscribed: Nike trainers

BYLINE: Charlie Porter

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 334 words


You can understand the panic - after just a couple of decades waiting for a
trainer that has anything to do fashion, Nike has caused chaos among addicts by
going all Bottega Veneta with its limited edition Woven range. These shoes -
basically baskets for the feet, hand-woven in elastic - have, if you believe
reports, caused queues and catfights this last week at branches of Office
affiliates Offspring and Poste among those desperate to part with pounds 150 for
something that looks like a criss-crossed bandage. The trainers, limited to 200
pairs per never-to-be-repeated colour worldwide, are available in two editions -
brown/khaki or black and red.

Offspring is running low on stock, with only very small sizes left, and hoping
for another batch within the month. Browns Focus has just taken delivery of
stock which should, on optimistic estimates, last to the end of the week. And
insiders are already aware that Pauric Sweeney's cult Hoxton boutique will stock
the Woven when it opens in December. This frenzy isn't limited to the high
street, presumably helped by the rumour that the Woven originated in the Comme
des Garcons design studio. On e-bay, bidding stands at Dollars 699 for a pair in
blue with grape and cream tones, a sale that is about to make its anonymous
owner very happy.

But while a limited-edition piece from a high-fashion house can be timeless,
trend trainers scream for immediate attention, and fade in covetability the
second you see someone else in them. Meanwhile, the scrabble to get hold of the
item stops shoppers from thinking about whether the product suits them or not.

So, while the BV weave looks sexy and second-hand made into bodices or bags, the
cocoon shape of the Woven is not going to make any foot appear slender and
elegant. Do you want to look as if you're in an orthopaedic shoe? No? Then think
again about the Woven.

Offspring and Poste enquiries, 020-7251 6646; Browns Focus, 020-7514 0064;
Pauric Sweeney, 020 7253 5150


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             772 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                Guardian Weekly

                                October 11, 2000

United's record deal

BYLINE: Andrew Dick

SECTION: SPORT; Sports Diary; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 148 words


Manchester United have agreed a world record $ 450m, 15-year kit deal with
sportswear giant Nike.  The sponsorship easily beats Nike's kit deal with the
Brazilian Football Federation. That 10-year agreement is worth about $ 105m, and
covers all the country's national teams, including junior and women.

In a kit deal of a different kind the No 10 shirt worn by Sir Geoff Hurst in the
1966 World Cup final -- won by England, for those who can't remember -- made
football history for the second time last week when it was sold at auction for $
138,000.  A football-mad British -- well, we're almost certain he's English
collector bid by telephone from Sydney, where he was on holiday during the
Olympics.  The price for the shirt in which Hurst scored a hat-trick more than
doubles the previous record of $ 66,000 for a shirt worn by the late Bobby Moore
on that historic day.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Publication, Ltd.


                             773 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 29, 2000, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

MAKING NEWS

SECTION: SPORTS; SIDELINES; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 195 words



Merger of the mighty

Nike reportedly will pay $ 450-million to have its swoosh logo appear on the
jerseys one of the world's most popular pro soccer clubs, Manchester United. The
15-year deal will take effect in 2002, when Manchester United's contract with
Umbro expires, the Sun newspaper in London reported. Umbro said its contract
with United will run until July 2002 and discussions were ongoing about the
future. A Nike spokeswoman did not comment. An announcement is expected Monday,
the Sun said.

QUESTION OF THE DAY

When was the last time FSU had more than one loss heading into its football game
against Miami?

Answer below.

QUOTABLE

"If people aren't watching the Olympics because they already know the outcome,
why is Titanic the biggest-grossing movie of all time?"

- NICK CANEPA

writing in the San Diego

Union Tribune

ANSWER

In 1989. The Seminoles lost the first two games of the season (to Southern Miss
and Clemson) but were 5-2 when they hosted the Hurricanes. FSU beat Miami 24-10,
won the rest of its games and beat Nebraska 41-17 in the Fiesta Bowl behind five
touchdown passes by Peter Tom Willis to finish No. 3 in the nation.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, (2); Deion Sanders; Kawika Mitchell

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                             776 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            June 21, 2000, Wednesday

Ad campaign lands Nike in a sorry mess

BYLINE: Tanya Targett, Tom Salom

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 549 words


SPORTSWEAR maker Nike has been accused of exploiting Aboriginal sprint star
Cathy Freeman and the nation's reconciliation debate in an ad featuring athletes
saying sorry.

Freeman plays only a minor role in the ad, but the timing of its release has
stung Aboriginal activists.

National Sorry Day Committee co-chairwoman Audrey Kinnear said Nike was
"heartlessly and shamelessly" trivialising the nation's "sorry" campaign with
its latest slogan "No apologies".

Ms Kinnear said her committee would call on Nike to withdraw the ad.

The advertisement features 20 athletes looking at the camera as the word "sorry"
appears on-screen, with Freeman saying, "Can we talk about this later?"

Most athletes, including runner Steve Moneghetti and footballer James Hird, say
sorry in a light-hearted manner for being driven by success.

Nike Olympics spokeswoman Megan Ryan said the timing of the "No apologies"
commercial was purely coincidental.

Ms Ryan said Nike was trying to show how athletes had to apologise to a lot of
people they did not have time for during Olympic preparations.

"While we understand that there is some sensitivity and contention around the
'sorry' issue, it was a more behind-the-scenes look at athletes who make no
apologies for the fact they have to say sorry to a lot of people," she said.

"Sorry is a word used by people everyday.

"It is a coincidence that the whole reconciliation issue has come up here."

Ms Ryan said the insight into Freeman was more about the fact that everybody
wanted "a piece of her" in the lead-up to the Sydney Games.

"It's not in reference to the reconciliation issue," she said.

But Ms Kinnear said the ad was an irresponsible and cruel ploy which undermined
Freeman's credibility when she could not afford further controversy.

Nick Bideau, Freeman's former coach and business manager, is suing the
high-profile athlete, claiming she breached her contract with his management
company.

"It's insensitive of Nike to use her that way because it's going to hurt our
people . . . the use of the word 'sorry', so many times, straight after the
reconciliation walk in Sydney," Ms Kinnear said.

"They're using her, but also they are capitalising on the word we want to hear
from governments and other Australians to right the wrongs of past history."

Freeman's spokesman, Richard Amos, said he was waiting to talk to the sprint
star and could not comment.

Ms Kinnear said the Sorry Day Committee would probably make an official
statement asking Nike to withdraw the ad for Freeman's sake and that of other
indigenous Australians.

Nike marketing director Brent Scrimshaw denied the company was commenting on or
capitalising on the reconciliation debate.

"This advertisement features 20 athletes -- all of whom have to make choices in
order to become the best they can be," Mr Scrimshaw said.

"Our only intention is for people to gain an appreciation of these sacrifices
and an insight into the lives of athletes. (Cathy's) reference to 'Can we talk
about this later?' illustrates that all she wants to do is focus on running --
she's too busy to stop and talk. It's a sacrifice."

He said a second component to Nike's Olympic advertising campaign, giving
further insight into the lives of elite athletes, would be launched soon.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             777 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                         May 11, 2000, Thursday, EARLY

Nike markets speedometer on a shoestring

BYLINE: Andy Ogle

SECTION: News; A1 / Front

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: EDMONTON


EDMONTON -- A runner's speedo-meter invented by a University of Alberta
engineering professor has been snapped up by Nike as one of five new high-tech
devices for the ''digital athlete,'' the sports marketing giant unveiled
yesterday.

The device, which Nike will sell with a version of its popular Triax wristwatch
for $199 U.S. starting in October in the United States and soon after that in
Canada, consists of sensors and a microprocessor designed to clip onto shoe
laces.

It's a sophisticated wireless gadget that measures stride length and velocity
and transmits the information to the watch, which gives constant speed and
distance readouts.

Ken Fyfe, who teaches mechanical engineering at the U of A, came up with the
idea a few years ago while talking with his wife, Anne Galloway, about ideas for
a design project to give his students.

A veteran marathon runner, she suggested something to help runners improve their
training.

Mr. Fyfe, also a runner and coach of the Leduc Track club, decided he'd work on
it himself rather than giving it to his students.

He later formed a company called Dynastream Innovations Inc. with his younger
brother Kip, an electrical engineer in Cochrane, Alta., to further develop
prototypes and shop it around to sports equipment manufacturers, including Nike.

Mr. Fyfe said his invention, which Nike is labelling the SDM (Speed Distance
Monitor) Triax 100, is a big improvement over the typical pedometer. A pedometer
is a stride counter that counts the number of steps you take and then uses what
you think is your average stride length to tell you how far you've gone, he
said.

''This thing is actually measuring each and every stride. So even if you change
your stride length, this calculates that.'' It's more than 97 per cent accurate
and can also be used to store data.

Clare Hammil, vice- president of Nike Equipment, said at a news conference at
company headquarters in Beaverton, Oregon, that of the five devices the company
touted yesterday, it was most excited about the speed and distance watch. ''The
simple question when you go out for a run, go for a walk, you're out hiking, is
how far did I go and how fast did I move?''

Nike created a new division it is calling Nike Techlab to market the
speed-distance monitor and four other new products for what it's calling the
dotcom or digital athlete.

Its other products include a new heart monitor, a portable digital audio player,
a backcountry wristwatch that will give out altitude, compass and weather
readings and a new two-way radio for snowboarders, hikers and the like.

Ray Riley, Nike Equipment creative director, called the speed- distance watch a
simple out-of-the-box solution for today's athletes who are hungry for
information about their workout. ''You take it out, you put the little pod on
your foot, you put your watch on, you push a button and you go and you find out
what you need.''

Mr. Fyfe said getting the product to this stage has been a long and sometimes
difficult project. Some of the research was funded by the Natural Sciences and
Engineering Research Council, and the university's industry liaison office
helped Mr. Fyfe to get a patent and provided some money to develop better
prototypes.

But at one point Mr. Fyfes' company ran out of money and had to shut down. Kip
ran the company out of his garage, said Mr. Fyfe. And a meeting with Nike
officials was held at a kitchen table.

''It has literally been running on a shoestring, no pun intended,'' he said.
''So many roadblocks had to be overcome. But it has been a lot of fun to work
on.''


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CP Color Photo: Grant Black, The Calgary Herald / Runners can lace Ken
Fyfe's sensor to their shoes for constant readouts of speed and distance.

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             783 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 24, 2000, Saturday

Men in Gold Suits

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 441 words


Nike stands for victory. But is victory about to require runners to encapsulate
themselves from head to toe in cocoons of clingfilm? Our athletics correspondent
announces that Nike, the manufacturer of sportswear, has developed a bodysuit
that may cut a nanosecond off the Exocet swoosh of runners down the track.

Its Swift Suit is to be worn for the first time today. It has been developed by
an English fashion designer in order to get the fastest performance out of
muscle temperature and aerodynamics. This means using darker colours and lighter
textiles to cover certain bits of the body, and wearing a bodysuit from hood to
ankle in order to reduce wind drag. The suit has been tested in a wind tunnel.
It is intended to work in a similar way to the dimples on a golf ball.

Science is more obviously useful to sports that use equipment, such as the pole
vault, cycling and the javelin. The swimmers have developed a shark-fin suit.
But the oldest sport, the sprint, also always uses technology in order to run
faster. Coroebus of Elis, a cook, is the first recorded Olympic champion. He
wore bare feet to win the footrace the length of the stadium (192 metres) at
Olympia in 776BC. But thereafter the sprinters were made to discard their shorts
and run naked in order to reduce wind drag and opponent drag.

Employing a goddess to trip up the opposition was regarded as cheating, as drugs
are today. But, as with drugs, winners were seldom disqualified because of their
goddess. Leather replaced bare feet, rubber replaced leather, and spikes
replaced rubber. It is hard to see how spikes can be made even lighter or
faster, though the manufacturers will manage it. Harold Abrahams and Eric
Liddell sprinted in baggy shorts which were the latest Varsity togs. Linford
Christie ran in streamlined kit. Sprinters now shave their heads in order to
reduce wind resistance.

Sprinting is the oldest and simplest of sports. Since man got up on his hind
legs, he has been putting one leg in front of the other. Any fool can do it. But
it takes a superhuman kind of folly to do it for 100 metres in less than 10
seconds. The sprinters' aerodynamic pod is going to make life harder for the
commentators. When every runner looks like Spiderman, or Superman wearing his
underpants outside his colour-coded bodystocking, spectators will have only the
lanes to identify the runners. Joggers, who already advertise their egos in
university vests to which they are not entitled, will have a new livery. It may
even spur them to run faster. But to run first will still require guts and go,
and, if she is available, a lucky goddess.


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited


                             785 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 1, 2000

'Repellent' Olympics TV ad banned: US network acts after claims that Nike
campaign encourages violence against women.

BYLINE: John Arlidge

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 705 words


IT IS THE world's biggest marketing bonanza with more than one hundred million
viewers in 100 countries. The Olympics are used to sell everything from pet food
to insurance, but for the world's biggest sports company the games have turned
into a PR false start.

Nike of the US has been condemned as 'stupid and repellent' after an
advertisement featuring the runner Suzy Favor Hamilton provoked outrage among
viewers who said it encouraged violence against women. The giant American
network, NBC, which has exclusive rights to screen the Olympics in the US, has
banned the multi-million dollar commercial.

It features Hamilton being threatened by a chainsaw-wielding assassin in a
remote cabin. In a spoof of the classic slasher movie, The Texas Chainsaw
Massacre, she escapes and is chased through the surrounding forest.

In her Nike trainers Hamilton begins to out-run her assailant who is forced to
stop and rest. He pulls off his ice hockey mask, breathing heavily, before
giving up and heading home.

The last shot shows Hamilton vanishing into the moonlight. 'Why Sport?' the
title flashes. 'Because you'll live longer.'

Nike insists the advertisement is tongue in cheek, but commentators say it is
offensive. 'It is stupid, ill-conceived and repellent,' said Bob Garfield of
Advertising Age . The Washington Post called it 'a far cry from the inspiring
and empowering "Just Do It"ads.'

The New York Times quoted a reader who labelled the new ad 'disgusting and
misogynistic'. At a Women in Advertising awards banquet the commercial was
singled out for setting back the cause of women.

Industry observers have accused Nike of adopting 'double standards' in
advertising women's and men's brands. Barbara Lippert of AdWeek says the
commercials targeting men tend to be 'loose, playful and cartoonish', often
making fun of the very athletes who endorse Nike products. The women's ads, by
contrast, are earnest, even threatening.

Nike defends its ad as 'humane and ironic'. Mike Wilskey, vice president of
Marketing, said: 'We are disappointed that NBC has chosen to take our ad off the
air. Our rule has always been to respect the intelligence of our consumer. This
notion that we owe all women an apology is certainly open to conjecture.

'People are going berserk. They're saying, "We get this. Nike doesn't." When the
reality is that women are emailing us in huge numbers saying, "I get this. I
understand this. I understand what you were trying to do with this ad".'

Nike insists its new 'Why Sport' series of commercials presents the benefits of
physical fitness in extraordinary ways. The ads have a look and feel of classic
cinematic moments.

Despite the outcry, some industry executives agree. Russell Davis, planning
director at ad agency Wieden & Kennedy, says that in the advertisement Hamilton
is treated as an athlete rather than as a 'woman athlete'. She is the winner,
not the victim. The shift in strategy is deliberate, he says. At one point, it
felt like here was something that needed to be said about women's role in
sports. It was all about empowerment, and self-image, and "if you let me play".

'Now women's sports are higher profile. They're much more on equal footing with
men. And the advertising is starting to reflect it.' Davis adds: 'In the last
year or so, Nike has injected a lot more humour, a lot more playfulness, in its
treatment of women athletes. It treats Suzy Hamilton pretty much the same as
Andre Agassi. It's not a role-model, "go out and be like Suzy" kind of thing.
It's more like: "We have athletes we love, and we want to put them in our
communication".'

* UK sports stars are not the only Britons breaking records in the Sydney
Olympics which end today. BBC1 and BBC2 have increased their share of the
peak-time audience by an average 20 per cent. The number of viewers of the games
is up one-third on the last Olympics in Atlanta.

Unofficial viewing figures show that the BBC's daytime viewing was up from
between 1million and 1.5m to around 2-2.5m - 35 per cent of the audience. When
Steve Redgrave captured his fifth gold medal in consecutive Olympics, BBC1 took
75 per cent of the audience.

john.arlidge@observer.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             786 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            August 31, 2000 Thursday

Raptors' Carter close to signing rich shoe deal;
NBA star could be $11.5-million richer;
from sponsorship agreement with Nike

BYLINE: ROBERT MacLEOD, Basketball Reporter

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. S2

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: Toronto


The other shoe is about to drop for Toronto Raptor sensation Vince Carter,
bringing with it a windfall worth about $11.5-million (U.S.).

Carter, who is working out with the U.S. Olympic team in Honolulu in preparation
for the Sydney Olympic Games, is to sign a sponsorship deal with shoe
conglomerate Nike for a reported $30-million, a National Basketball Association
source confirmed yesterday.

The six-year deal, details of which are being fine-tuned, would see Nike clear a
$14.5-million debt that Carter owes Puma, the shoe company with which Carter had
initially signed an endorsement deal before joining the Raptors two seasons ago.

Carter became dissatisfied with Puma last year and tried to walk away from the
contract. The matter went to arbitration in the United States and the arbitrator
ruled in Puma's favour, saying that Carter owned the company $13.5-million plus
an additional $1-million in lawyer fees.

The ruling, which came down after the conclusion of the 1999-2000 NBA season,
prohibited the 23-year-old forward from signing an endorsement deal with another
company for three years.

Under the terms of the new agreement, Nike would clear Carter's debt with Puma
and then pay their competitor an additional $5-million to release the
high-flying dunk king from the initial contract.

The remaining money, about $11.5-million, will go into Carter's pocket.

The Associated Press on Tuesday reported Carter denying a new deal had been
reached.

"I just got out of a Puma suit, so how can I have a deal ready?" Carter said.
"Everybody's jumping the gun."

However, a source close to the negotiations with Nike and Puma, who did not want
to be identified, said the new deal should be announced within the next week or
two.

"For Vince, to not have to worry about this once and for all would allow him to
focus on basketball," the source said. "For him, he'd like to get it done as
soon as possible."

Officials with both Nike and Puma were unavailable for comment yesterday.

Under the terms of the arbitration ruling, Carter was required to continue to
wear the Puma brand when he played basketball. He did so but grudgingly, often
covering up the Puma logo on the shoes with tape or blacking it out with ink.

The sneaker scenario certainly had no bearing on Carter's performance last
season, as he guided the Raptors to their first appearance in the NBA playoffs.

He was the leading vote-getter for the starting lineups in the NBA all-star game
where he soared to victory in the slam-dunk competition.

It is believed that Carter's deal with Nike is among the most lucrative
involving NBA players. Nike also has signed golfer Tiger Woods to a new
endorsement package, a five-year deal believed to be worth $122-million.

Raptors president Richard Peddie said he had no knowledge of Carter's pending
shoe deal.

"You want your players being focused on the game and you want them to be
financially secure," Peddie said. "The less players have to worry about, the
better. We're huge fans of Vince. We want it to all work out for him."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2000 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             787 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                          September 28, 2000, Thursday

Move over big boys, here comes Li Ning

BYLINE: Lynne O'Donnell

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 359 words


To the ranks of Olympic titans Nike, Reebok, Speedo and Adidas, the Sydney Games
have added Li Ning, Lynne O'Donnell reports

ONCE China's most famous athlete and now one of its foremost entrepreneurs, Li
Ning has vaulted from the winners' podium to real gold with a line of eponymous
sportswear.

His now-famous L-shaped swoosh has made a breakthrough in Sydney as Li Ning is
not just clothing the Chinese squad, but members of the French team as well.

Known as the Gymnastics Prince, Li Ning, 37, earned his placed in China's
sporting history with a string of spectacular performances throughout the 1980s
-- including three gold medals at Los Angeles -- that catapulted him to fame.

Business beckoned after retirement, and by the early 90s Li Ning Sportswear
boutiques, with their distinctive white swoosh on a red background, began
popping up in big cities around China.

Today, Li Ning is the largest sportswear manufacturer in the country. Total
sales last year surpassed 600 million yuan ($133million) and are projected to
reach 700 million yuan this year.

While his "L" swoosh now has an estimated 50 per cent of the Chinese market for
sports and casual wear, according to figures published in state-run newspapers,
Nike has about 30 per cent and Adidas about 10 per cent.

The remainder of the market is shared between a handful of domestic and
international manufacturers.

The secret of Li Ning's success, according to analysts, is his appeal to China's
essentially casual culture.

While Nike, Adidas and the other international sports apparel companies came to
the world's biggest potential market to cash in on the faddish approach of
Chinese consumers to famous brand names, Li Ning's strategy was to appeal to the
youth-teen market, as young men and women in the early 90s were only just
developing an interest in sport.

As the Europeans and Americans went for the high end of the market, Li Ning kept
his clothing affordable: the most expensive athletic shoes in his line cost
about 300 yuan ($66).

Li Ning has 450 stores in China and has sponsored Chinese athletes in every
Games since Barcelona in 1992.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             788 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                          September 28, 2000, Thursday

Move over big boys, here comes Li Ning

BYLINE: Lynne O'Donnell

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 359 words


To the ranks of Olympic titans Nike, Reebok, Speedo and Adidas, the Sydney Games
have added Li Ning, Lynne O'Donnell reports

ONCE China's most famous athlete and now one of its foremost entrepreneurs, Li
Ning has vaulted from the winners' podium to real gold with a line of eponymous
sportswear.

His now-famous L-shaped swoosh has made a breakthrough in Sydney as Li Ning is
not just clothing the Chinese squad, but members of the French team as well.

Known as the Gymnastics Prince, Li Ning, 37, earned his placed in China's
sporting history with a string of spectacular performances throughout the 1980s
-- including three gold medals at Los Angeles -- that catapulted him to fame.

Business beckoned after retirement, and by the early 90s Li Ning Sportswear
boutiques, with their distinctive white swoosh on a red background, began
popping up in big cities around China.

Today, Li Ning is the largest sportswear manufacturer in the country. Total
sales last year surpassed 600 million yuan ($133million) and are projected to
reach 700 million yuan this year.

While his "L" swoosh now has an estimated 50 per cent of the Chinese market for
sports and casual wear, according to figures published in state-run newspapers,
Nike has about 30 per cent and Adidas about 10 per cent.

The remainder of the market is shared between a handful of domestic and
international manufacturers.

The secret of Li Ning's success, according to analysts, is his appeal to China's
essentially casual culture.

While Nike, Adidas and the other international sports apparel companies came to
the world's biggest potential market to cash in on the faddish approach of
Chinese consumers to famous brand names, Li Ning's strategy was to appeal to the
youth-teen market, as young men and women in the early 90s were only just
developing an interest in sport.

As the Europeans and Americans went for the high end of the market, Li Ning kept
his clothing affordable: the most expensive athletic shoes in his line cost
about 300 yuan ($66).

Li Ning has 450 stores in China and has sponsored Chinese athletes in every
Games since Barcelona in 1992.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             789 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 6, 2000, Thursday

TENNIS: WIMBLEDON DAY 9: MEN'S QUARTER-FINALS : SKINT VLAD WON'T BE SHORT
CHANGED

BYLINE: John Cross

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 58, 59

LENGTH: 519 words


HARD-UP Vladimir Voltchkov is guaranteed a bumper pounds 120,000 Wimbledon
semi-final pay-day - after being so skint he had to borrow a pair of shorts.

Voltchkov, 22, the first qualifier to reach the semis since John McEnroe in
1977, had to wear the same T-shirt as last year because he had spent all his
spare cash on going to see the hit film Gladiator four times.

And his Russian tennis pal Marat Safin had to lend him a pair of shorts because
he came to England with no new kit.

And the Belarus blaster, ranked 237th in the world, has now been offered kit
sponsorship deals with Nike and adidas on the back of his amazing Wimbledon
success.

Voltchkov has also landed a dream showdown - and guaranteed pay cheque for
reaching the semi-finals - with top seed Pete Sampras on Centre Court tomorrow.

Voltchkov, who beat Zimbabwean Byron Black 7-6 7-6 6-4, said: "I had the same
stuff from last year.

"The shorts I wore were from Marat Safin because I came here with no new
clothes. It's been very tough for me financially and to reach the semi-finals
and earn some money is a dream come true.

"I've had injury problems and when you're playing minor tournaments around the
world it's very hard to earn money.

"I don't have a kit sponsor so I ended up wearing Nike and adidas gear.

"Nike were kind enough to give me two pairs of shoes for my match today and
adidas gave me one pair for last week."

However, Voltchkov admitted he has been wasting his spare cash in London on
going to the cinema since arriving two weeks ago.

He said: "I've been to see Gladiator four times so no wonder I can't afford the
kit.

"I'm sure I could afford now to go to posh restaurants but my dad is a good cook
and I prefer to eat at the flat we've rented together."

It is, of course, the furthest Voltchkov has ever been in a Grand Slam
tournament - and all after having to win three qualifying matches to reach the
competition proper.

He said: "I don't think everything has sunk in yet. I used to watch John McEnroe
on TV and I always admired him. Someone mentioned to me the other day about
becoming the first qualifier since McEnroe to reach the semi-finals and I've
kept it in my head.

"To play Pete Sampras in the semi-finals - what else could you wish for? It's a
dream come true and an honour for me.

"Grass seems to suit my game, but how do I beat Sampras? That's a good question.
He is probably the greatest player of all time and if he's in the mood then it
will be very difficult for me. But if I can do my best and give him a good game
then I'll be very happy."

Disappointed Black, ranked 37th in the world, believes Sampras will finally end
the underdog's charge to glory.

Black said: "With the way Pete's playing, I don't think Vladimir could beat him.
He's a flashy player. When I thought I had him he would beat me with a great
shot."

But Voltchkov, who won the Wimbledon junior title in 1996, has consistently
defied all the odds.

Now bookies Hills have him 12-1 for the title, with Sampras the 8-11 favourite,
Andre Agassi 5-2 and Pat Rafter 4-1.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VLADIATOR: Voltchkov loves a grass fight

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


                             796 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                       August 23, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL

Say it ain't so, Nike: Tiger doesn't use golf balls he endorses

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: Sports; C1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Tiger Woods endorses Nike Tour Accuracy golf balls in television and magazine
ads, but he really plays with custom-made balls unavailable to everyday duffers,
Nike acknowledged Tuesday after being sued in federal court.

Nike Inc. said the balls used by Woods, who is one of the longest hitters in
golf with drives that travel 300-plus yards, have a slightly harder inner and
outer core than the balls sold to the public.

''Those two elements are slightly firmer than the marketed ball,'' said Mike
Kelly, marketing director for Nike Golf.

Kelly said it's common practice in the golfing world to sell the public
different products than what the pros use.

''It's an industry practice to make minor specification changes to golf
products: Irons, putters and golf balls for tour players,'' Kelly said. ''Slight
specification and modifications need to be made to their equipment for their
game.''

Other leading names in golf say their customers get exactly what their pros
endorse.

Joe Gomes, a spokesman for Titleist of Fairhaven, Mass., said its players use
the same products they advertise. And if a player uses a ''tweaked'' version of
a club, he said, a consumer could special order it.

''We are very particular about our advertisements,'' said Gomes. ''We don't make
any claims that cannot be substantiated in both golf balls and clubs.''

Callaway Golf of Carlsbad, Calif., said if one of its golf pros says he uses a
certain club, that identical club is available retail.

Spokesman Larry Dorman did say, however, that in February, one of its golf balls
had a different number of dimples on it than the ones its pros used.

That occurred, he said, because Callaway was waiting approval of the new ball by
the U.S. Golf Association, so the company's pros were briefly forbidden from
using it in tournaments.

''We used a prototype with a different number of dimples,'' Dorman said. ''As a
result, for a very short period of time, there was a little bit of a lapse from
what was being marketed. We were very up front about it.''

Woods's agent, Mark Steinberg, did not immediately return a call requesting
comment on the lawsuit.

In the suit filed Tuesday in U.S. district court in San Francisco, a nonprofit
group called Public Remedies Inc.  claimed Nike, based in Beaverton, Ore., was
engaging in unfair business practices. It asks that Nike's ''ill-gotten gains''
be restored to the public.

''Tiger Woods does not play the Nike Tour Accuracy golf ball, but instead plays
one with a different composition and performance characteristics specially made
for him . . . and not available to the general public,'' the suit said.

The group did not return repeated calls for comment.

Woods switched to the Nike Tour Accuracy ball before the U.S. Open, the first of
his three major titles this year.


LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CP Color Photo: Calgary Herald / Tiger Woods places ball during
Deutsche Bank Open on May 18.

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             800 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                               September 28, 2000

United in GBP 300m kit deal

SECTION: Pg.46

LENGTH: 145 words


MANCHESTER United are poised to announce an amazing GBP 300million kit deal with
Nike.

The American sportswear giants are believed to have agreed a 15-year link-up
with the Premiership champions that could be rubber-stamped as early as next
week.

United still have two years left to run on their current contract with Umbro,
but Nike are determined to establish themselves as the leading force in the
ever-growing world-wide football market.

The firm already sponsor Brazil's national team to the tune of just under GBP
7million-a-year for the rights to produce the famous yellow shirts of the
four-times World Cup winners.

And they now want to tie up a similar agreement with the world's most famous
club side.

Sir Alex Ferguson is also believed to have been offered an eeambassadorial''
role with the firm when he steps down as the Red Devils' manager.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2000 Express & Echo


                             804 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 10, 2000 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MATCHUPS SET FOR NIKE U.S. CUP

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 162 words


The U.S. men's national team will face South Africa on June 3 at RFK Stadium in
Washington, D.C., in the opener of the Nike U.S. Cup.

Team USA will face Ireland on June 6 in Foxboro, Mass., and it will playMexico
on June 11 in East Rutherford, N.J.

In other games, the Chicago Fire and the Kansas City Wizards of Major League
Soccer will play in the first game of a doubleheader June 4 in Chicago. Ireland
will face Mexico in the nightcap.

On June 7, Mexico will face South Africa in the first game of a doubleheader in
Dallas, followed by the Dallas Burn and the Columbus Crew of MLS.

On June 11, the U.S.-Mexico matchup will be followed by Ireland vs. South
Africa.

* The San Diego Sockers will join the World Indoor Soccer League in 2001, said
David Altomare, one of several businessman who have revived the former Major
Indoor Soccer League franchise.

The Sockers won 10 titles with the MISL.

The WISL, founded in 1998, currently has eight teams.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: NATIONAL UPDATE

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             812 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           September 29, 2000, Friday

United's $791m deal with Nike / GOING GLOBAL

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 127

LENGTH: 63 words


SOCCER

THE world's biggest soccer club just got even bigger, with Manchester United
reportedly signing a staggering $791.66 million, 15-year sponsorship deal with
Nike.

The deal with the American sports footwear manufacturer is likely to be
announced on Monday, and would eclipse any other in the soccer world, the
Guardian newspaper announced in London yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             814 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            July 19, 2000, Wednesday

True-blue Olympians stick with green and gold

BYLINE: Tom Salom

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 298 words


AUSTRALIAN athletes and officials knocked back a true blue look in Olympic
uniforms to stick with the green and gold.

Sportswear designer Nike wanted the Australian Olympic Committee to include more
navy blue in the competition outfits, insisting that navy blue was a more
"fashionable" colour than Australia's traditional Olympic look.

But AOC athlete director Herb Elliott sent the Nike designers back to the
drawing board with the instruction that green and gold was not to be watered
down.

"They navy was cut back very quickly," Elliott said.

The competition outfits were unveiled yesterday and met with widespread praise
from athletes and officials.

Most attention focused on the track and field "swift suit". The head-to-toe
aerodynamic suit is mariner emerald green on the front with maize yellow
striping on the rear. For the first time in Olympic history, athletes competing
in all 28 sports will have an integrated design throughout the uniforms and
Australia's Paralympians will wear the same outfits as Olympic athletes.

Several of the futuristic uniforms feature streamlined design, lightweight
construction materials and "bodymapping" to highlight the muscle tones of
athletes. The stars of the Southern Cross are also emblazoned on most outfits.

More than 50 designers worked on 253 uniform styles for the 28 sports with
87,528 items to be manufactured.

Sizes range from xxxS for gymnasts to 6XL for basketballers and weightlifters.

AOC president John Coates declared the uniforms the best in Australian Olympic
history.

Elliott said his favourite outfit was the presentation tracksuit Australians
would wear on the medal podium.

"The swift suits are a bit beyond me and I do think the beach volleyball outfit
might be a bit beyond me too," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             819 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Moscow Times

                                  May 19, 2000

Nike Searches for Young Soccer Talent

BYLINE: By Kevin O'Flynn

SECTION: No. 1960

LENGTH: 441 words


Staff Writer

Spartak captain Andrei Tikhonov was taking penalties, hundreds of kids were
clamoring for CSKA star Alexei Smertin's autograph and Lokomotiv goalkeeper
Ruslan Nigmatullin was letting in only his second goal in nearly 1,000 minutes,
but Alexander Ivanov, 11, was just trying to stand while sweating heavily.
Ivanov was one of a half dozen or so wide, lumpy figures walking awkwardly
around like sumo wrestlers at Kudrinskaya Ploshchad on Thursday. Wearing 58
different pieces of Nike clothing, Ivanov was attempting to be named Mr. Nike, a
title that came with a free soccer ball.

The competition was one of the sidelines to the main competition - Nike's search
for 22 young soccer players who will get the chance to train for a day at the
national team's training base at the end of the month. To have a chance,
aspiring Tikhonovs had to dribble the ball through an obstacle course set up on
the square, hit a target and juggle the ball for as long as possible.

Kept upright by his friends, Ivanov was pushed onto the stage set up on the
square and began to strip. Ten minutes later, a slight young boy emerged from
the huge figure and the emcee called for a bulldozer to remove the clothes.

Unfortunately for Ivanov, Igor Grakh, 12, followed him onto the stage and
whipped off 65 pieces of Nike clothing.

"I sat for a whole hour in these clothes," said a relieved Grakh, his face
covered in self-scrawled Nike swooshes, seconds after being mobbed by
celebrating friends who had donated their clothes.

Grakh and his friends had come in from Odintsovo in the west of Moscow
especially for the event.

"We all play soccer there," said Grakh, as his friends began to sort out the
clothes. "But we didn't come just for that. We came for the fun." Meanwhile on
the specially constructed course, Lokomotiv Moscow goalie Nigmatullin, who until
Wednesday's match against Samara hadn't let a goal in for eight league matches,
was facing shots from kids and letting most of them in.

The search for players goes on until Sunday at Kudrinskaya Ploshchad. Any youth
between the ages of 13 and 16 can take part. Out of the 22, three will then be
chosen to travel to the Netherlands in June during the European Championships
for what Nike calls a "secret mission." Other events saw pop-group Ivanushki
International take to the soccer course and a Pepsi drinking contest that saw
children's noses spurt with Pepsi as they raced to see who could down the most
of the fizzy pop drink. At the end of the competition they got to throw drinks
into the crowds with the delight of people who have a stomach full of fizz.


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                        Copyright 2000 Independent Press


                             820 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                January 7, 2000

News: CONSUMER

SECTION: News: CONSUMER, Pg.8

LENGTH: 438 words


Soccer shirt claim

SPORTS goods manufacturer Nike today insisted there was no evidence that some of
its British-made football shirts were laced with a toxic chemical. Fears have
been raised over the safety of shirts of German side Borussia Dortmund after a
German TV show commissioned lab tests and claimed the shirts contain a chemical
used on the bottom of sea vessels, which is also used to kill bacteria and quell
the stench of excessive sweating. A Nike spokesman today confirmed the Borussia
Dortmund shirts are made in Britain and Italy. He refused to say where in
Britain they are made. He repeated that initial testing had failed to find any
Tributyltin, or TBT. "Initial research findings suggest that TBT is not used in
production of the garment," he said. Nike also make shirts for Arsenal and
Glasgow Rangers, though not in Britain.

Both clubs reported no concern over their shirts.

The Nike spokesman said Borussia Dortmund shirts were made by sub contractors in
Britain which specialise in manufacturing football shirts.

"Further tests are being carried out and we await the results of those," he
said.

"We are consulting outside industry experts and fabric suppliers."

He repeated the company's message to the public n "Don't pani?".

And he added: "Small doses of TBT when used in textiles are not normally
dangerous to humans."

mf 3 CONSUMER Nike Substitute

A scientist with a German institute for consumer health has said that TBT at
high levels in humans is believed to cause neurological problems, damage the
immune system and harm the liver.

"We don't know how much is in the shirts, so we can't analyse the risks,"
Juergen Kundke said. "We knew that the substance was still used in coatings for
ships, but it shouldn't be in textiles that people wear."

Three German department store chains have withdrawn the GBP 47 yellow and black
shirts, as a precaution.

British and Dutch tests have shown that TBT can cause mutations in marine
snails, and there have been calls for its global ban.

Nike has said it does not appear British retailers are following their German
counterparts by withdrawing the kit.

The spokesman said it makes Arsenal and Glasgow Rangers shirts, but not in this
country.

A Glasgow Rangers spokeswoman said: "We have sold 72,000 home jerseys in our
shops since the shirt's launch last July and we have had no problem with them.

"Only four have been returned and that is nothing to do with this issue."

An Arsenal spokeswoman said: "We have discussed the matter with Nike and at the
present time have no cause to recall any replica shirts from our club shops."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 The Gloucester Citizen


                             821 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       Herald Sun (Melbourne, Australia)

                            June 14, 2000, Wednesday

Rightly miffed

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 57 words


THE Beatles would not let companies such as Nike use their songs if they had
control over the publishing rights, according to Ringo Starr.

Ringo's disdain stems from what the owner of the publishing company -- Michael
Jackson -- has done with their songs.

Revolution has been used to sell Nike shoes, while Getting Better sells TVs.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             822 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 16, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

DIALOGUE;
Nike's Power Game

BYLINE: By Sarah Edith Jacobson;  Sarah Jacobson, a senior at the University of
Oregon, is active in United Students Against Sweatshops.

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: EUGENE, Ore.


When Phil Knight, the chief executive of Nike, withdrew a promised $30 million
donation to the University of Oregon last month, his announcement had the tone
of an angry parent. He chastised the university for joining the Worker Rights
Consortium, a group that monitors conditions in factories that make clothing
with college logos. He accused the university of "inserting itself into the new
global economy where I make my living" and doing so "on the wrong side, fumbling
a teachable moment."

Mr. Knight, an Oregon graduate, was angry that the university had joined this
consortium rather than the Fair Labor Association, a group that includes as
members the same industries that have profited from sweatshop conditions in
their production plants. The Worker Rights Consortium is based on the premise
that work conditions will not be changed by codes and monitors that come from
industry, but by involvement of workers, through collective bargaining with
management.

In joining the consortium, the University of Oregon pledged to use its influence
to improve conditions at factories producing clothes with the university logo.
Mr. Knight, accusing his alma mater of shredding its "bonds of trust" with him,
seemed offended that it had not asked his permission.

The university's decision was not made lightly. In March, a referendum sponsored
by the student government yielded a three-fourths majority vote in support of
membership. A committee accountable to the the university president, David B.
Frohnmayer, and made up of students, faculty, administrators and alumni, voted
unanimously the same month in favor of joining. Then the University Senate,
composed of faculty and students, passed a resolution calling for membership. It
was only after all these steps that President Frohnmayer signed the university
into membership.

Mr. Knight's punitive reaction really questions the autonomy of the university
itself. If the voice of one alumnus held more weight than a year of
university-wide deliberation, what role would there be for shared governance on
campus? If donations from corporate America depended on toeing a corporate line,
the university would be better off without the money.

The goal of students across the country who are organizing around sweatshop
issues is to create widespread change in an industry where insufficient wages
and mandatory overtime are common. In many third world and American apparel
factories, there have been reports of intimidation of workers who try to speak
out. And because it is easy for these factories to cut and run, vanishing across
national borders and abandoning workers, many people are hesitant to organize
unions or demand a living wage.

The Worker Rights Consortium and the student anti-sweatshop campaign challenge
companies like Nike not only to let the public know the conditions in apparel
factories, but to begin long-term change.

Will the debate about sweatshop conditions move beyond the specifics of
monitoring and toward establishing the right to organize? Phil Knight's
withdrawal of money from the University of Oregon sends the signal that his
company is resisting a move in that direction.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mirko Ilic)

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             827 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 4, 2000, Saturday

Man Utd in Pounds 300m Nike deal

BYLINE: James Doran

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 149 words


MANCHESTER United is to hand over control of its global retail business and its
entire merchandising operation to Nike, the US sportswear firm, in a deal worth
more than Pounds 300 million.

Nike will absorb Manchester United's fledgling network of retail outlets which
will be used as a springboard to open stores in America and Asia.

It will set up a subsidiary to run United's merchandising business, which made
profits of Pounds 2.1 million on turnover of Pounds 20 million in the year to
July.

United will be paid Pounds 23 million a year for the first six years of the
contract, with the remaining Pounds 164.9 million paid over the next seven years
for licensing and sponsorship. But the payments will be reduced if the team does
not finish in the top half of the Premiership or it does not compete in European
competitions.

United shares rose 2 1/4p to 232p.


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited


                             833 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 July 10, 2000

TAKING CARE OF BUSINESS;
'Branding' is the buzz word among business gurus

BYLINE: Malcolm Burgess

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 586 words


NIKE, Starbucks and Coke are. C&A, Principles and Rover most definitely aren't.
It don't mean a thing these days, it seems, unless you're a multinational,
monolithic brand that punters can't avoid.

Until recently, we were told by business gurus that only downsizing and
restructuring would keep a company's body and soul together. Now they've changed
their minds: there's only one magic ingredient. If you haven't been successfully
branded, then you might as well not bother queuing up at the global goodie
counter.

Branding isn't just the new rock 'n' roll, it's the new religion, because it's
not just about anything as vulgar as selling goods or services.

"Products are made in the factory," says Walter Landor of Landor, one of the
world's leading branding agencies, "but brands are made in the mind."

Ad agencies now like to think of themselves as brand factories, hammering out
ideas and attitudes. Consumers no longer buy products but the feel good,
lifestyle enhancing "value added" of brands. It's the difference between a
similar pair of trainers from Nike and Millets and it's about £80.

In the new global marketplace where all penetrating, successful brands can only
get bigger, the rest just curl up and die. It's why, for example, the Labour
Party felt it necessary to jettison many of its voter-losing policies, cobble
together some new ones and give themselves a new name, just in case we hadn't
twigged.

Branding isn't just about thinking big - it's about extending your product line
in as many different ways as possible. It's why Benetton and Microsoft have gone
into the magazine business, why Ally McBeal has her own line of designer
clothing, why Tommy Hilfiger has helped launch a record label and Nike is even
set to launch a swooshed cruise ship.

It's also why young activists opposed to this kind of globalised branding, and
its effect on choice, targeted companies like Nike and Starbucks at last year's
Seattle World Trade Organisation meeting. As Naomi Klein in No Logo: Taking Aim
at the Brand Bullies states, these mega-successful brands are "emblematic of a
new paradigm that eliminates all barriers between branding and culture, leaving
no room whatsoever for unmarketed space."

When the B-word reaches your office, don't expect your company to be able to
manage things by themselves. Do expect an endless series of meetings with
outside branding consultants which cost thousands of pounds and repeat what
everyone has been saying for years, free of charge, in the office kitchen .

The overall branding strategy then goes into overdrive. From products and
customer service to internal communications and even the tea lady (something to
do with serving ciabatta), everything must be "on message".

Everyone must promise not to giggle when they're told they sell a brand, not a
widget.

And, be warned, even your emails could soon be joining this massive branding
exercise - edesigns.co.uk claim that the majority of email users are fed up with
boring backgrounds and are failing to appreciate the brilliant branding
potential of using existing logos and letterheads electronically.

The company is currently asking executive secretaries to help their bosses see
the light.

After all, no bright PA wants their company to go the same way as poor old C&A.

The way ahead? Or the emperor's new Armani clothes? Don't worry, you'll soon get
the message.

* For more information about edesigns.co.uk call 020 7813 3449
www.edesigns.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             834 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 17, 2000, Sunday

'IT'S NICE, MUMMY, BUT IS IT EAMES?';
 CHILDREN BARELY OUT OF NAPPIES HAVE LONG BEEN ABLE TO DISCRIMINATE BETWEEN NIKE
AND M&S, BUT NOW THE LABEL OBSESSION HAS EXTENDED TO INTERIOR DECOR. HESTER
LACEY REPORTS ON THE POWER OF THE TODDLER POUND

BYLINE: Hester Lacey

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8, 9, 1, 11

LENGTH: 1754 words


'It's nice, Mummy, but is it Eames?'

Children barely out of nappies have long been able to discriminate between Nike
and M&S, but now the label obsession has extended to interior decor. HESTER
LACEY reports on the power of the toddler pound

It's a fact of modern life that children today are inordinately fashion
-conscious. Try fobbing off a tiny style maven with the wrong label and it will
end in tears (even Start-rite, the traditional doyen of sensible T-bar school
shoes, now has a Jolie Amie "couture" range). Still, there are only so many tiny
cashmere separates, designer sunglasses and special kiddies' beauty products one
can buy. So now, marketers have latched on to the final frontier in capitalism
for kids - interior design.

Children today aren't limited to garish furniture and fittings; bedroom decor
for a six-year-old can be just as minimalist, stylish, understated - and,
naturally, expensive - as that of their elders. Despite the hefty price tags,
tasteful parents who react to Superman duvet covers and Barbie dressing-tables
with a shudder of horror are likely to see this as a positive step. So, how do
you educate your child away from Thomas the Tank Engine and towards something
less lurid?

One could start with the latest slant on the story of Goldilocks and the Three
Bears, subtitled "A Tale Moderne". In this new book, the bears' house in the
woods is no longer the wooden shack of tradition - it is a modern, split-level
house, furnished with design classics, to teach children about the niceties of
form and function, style and elegance. "They could have had rough-hewn log
furniture, but why bother?" says Steven Guarnaccia, the author, who is also an
illustrator and designer. "The furniture is as much a character of the book as
the little bears."

Daddy Bear's chair is a Charles Rennie Mackintosh ladder back, Mummy Bear's
chair is one of Arne Jacobsen's Eggs, while Baby Bear parks his furry behind on
a Charles & Ray Eames LCW model (when the trespassing Goldilocks sits on the
chair, it falls to bits - an example of gratuitous vandalism that will have
grown-up aficionados sobbing). These bears have no truck with porridge - they
eat chilli with Gio Ponti spoons from Eva Zeisel bowls. And when they go off
into the woods to wait for their chilli to cool, Mama Bear is decked out in a
trendy headscarf, bright-red lipstick and a Conran shirt, while Dad is wearing a
beret and shades and carrying his clarinet. Goldilocks has trendy pedal pushers
and a Fifties-style ponytail and fringe. While she is nosing about in the
duplex, she finds an Alessandro Becchi sofa and a Sixties Italian-style blow-up
bed.

The book is aimed at three-to-seven-year-olds, though as a spokeswoman for
publishers Harry N Abrams cannily remarks, there will be plenty of grown-ups who
enjoy it, too. "The children will notice the furniture quite naturally," she
says. "It's not in-your-face 'let's learn about designer furniture'. Parents who
have an appreciation of designer furniture will draw the child's attention to
the pictures, and the funky images will turn kids on to remembering. The
drawings and colours are very appealing, and the pictures look very tactile."

There's a similar approach to architecture in Arches to Zigzags: an Architecture
ABC by Michael J Crosbie and Steve and Kit Rosenthal. If your child doesn't know
its finials from its quoins, or its turrets from its X -braces, this is the
place to start. There are simple rhymes and jingles to make the notions stick in
small heads. The idea of the book is to "stimulate young readers to think about
the built world around them in a creative, thought- provoking way".

Once your infant is rejecting Pokemon spin-offs with a pout in favour of Arne
Jacobsen, what's the next step? To start redecorating, evidently. A recent issue
of Junior (a kind of Vogue for parents) featured some suggestions, with not a
Postman Pat motif in sight. "Think of a child's room and you may not instantly
think tasteful decor and beautiful knick-knacks, but it is possible," ran the
editorial. One interior designer's eight-month- old son apparently rejoices in a
bedroom where "the mood is slightly Norwegian, with paintwork picked out in
duck-egg blue and a sophisticated black edging line throughout". Another set of
designer infants, aged eight, six and four, have a bathroom decorated with a
bespoke 14th -century map of Europe. "It's great fun and educational to talk
about places we've travelled to and would like to visit while they're splashing
around in the bath," says their mother.

You will, however, have to put some effort into seeking out such tasteful
accoutrements. "We looked at what was already available in children's furniture
and we weren't impressed," says Jerwood Prize-winning furniture designer Michael
Marriott. Working with fellow designer Simon Maidment, Marriott has just
completed Biscuit, a collection for Oreka Kids, a newly established manufacturer
of children's goods.

What is currently around, Marriott complains, tends to be like "oversized toys".
Children, he says, are very aware of their surroundings, yet they are definitely
neglected when it comes to design. "There's very little out there that is good
quality, aesthetically pleasing and built to last," he says. The Biscuit range
is made up of "pieces with an identity in their own right - playful not
childish; furniture that children can grow up with and live with as adults".

The collection includes tables, chairs, benches and trolleys, available in
tastefully understated shades of blue and yellow, trendy orange, or neutral
wood. One of Marriott's favourites is "Shortcake", a reversible bench that can
become a boat, car or ship. "It reminds me of the benches in school gyms, which
can be used for all kinds of different exercises," he says. "Ours is supplied
with slots and broomsticks so you can turn it over and put up a mast to make a
ship, or add wheels to make a car. But it's also a normal bench to sit on."

He also likes "Jammy Dodger", a pair of little step units that can be put
together as a seat and desk, or used as chairs or steps. "Often, kids don't want
to be told what they want," says Marriott. "These will be props to the child's
own imagination."

But all this design brilliance comes at a price. Shortcake is the cheapest in
the range at pounds 805, while Jammy Dodger is pounds 970. They are, says
Marriott, an investment. "They will last a lifetime because they are sturdy and
because their lifespan isn't dictated by the look of them - they will fit into
an adult home." Other companies such as Purves & Purves (tiny copies of the
classic Ant chair) and The Conran Shop (mini sofas and kiddies' garden
furniture) have also started catering for the little people.

It is a trend not lost on canny property developers, who are concentrating on
designs for family homes that are as child-friendly as possible. One company,
Countryside, puts the youngsters' bedrooms on the second floor, underneath the
roof, so that they have their own lofty domain. In some houses, Countryside will
include a children's "Jack and Jill" bathroom, accessible from the bedrooms on
either side. There are also touches to make the house irresistible to the kids:
wallpaper with clouds (accessorised with miniature planes or futuristic silvery
themes) or bright, clear colours and a variety of carefully chosen toys.

"When you buy off-the-shelf for children, it's often Postman Pat or the
Teletubbies, and yes, they like it," says Helen Moore, Countryside's sales and
marketing director. "But children are aware of plenty of other things. We don't
use characters; we don't need to. We pick themes children can talk about and
relate to so it feels like their own space, and they can see how their room
could be special and different. It's amazing how much they notice - how aware
they are from a very young age and how young they develop their own
preferences."

So, how will kids react to a sudden dose of interior style? How far can small
children understand a concept of good taste that doesn't include the
Teletubbies? Six-year-old Daniel isn't sure, and nor is his mother, Caroline
Talbot. "Daniel is more interested in climbing on furniture, while my
two-year-old, Anna, prefers to chew or crayon on it," she says. "Anna will chew
anything. If she had a designer chair, she would simply dribble on it." Daniel's
favourite piece of furniture is his own bed, the duvet for which he chose
himself. What kind of bed is it? "It came from a shop," he says.

Melanie, aged eight, says that shopping for the home is far from her favourite
activity. "When we go to IKEA, it takes a long time and you have to queue a lot.
Mum and Dad get really fed up and I do too." Her favourite furniture store, she
says, is a toy shop where she can buy things for her doll's house, which has a
four-poster bed and a tiny loo that really flushes. It's just as well her
desires are simple. "Melanie might develop expensive tastes, but we'll still be
trekking to IKEA," says her mum, Kim. n

"Goldilocks and the Three Bears: a Tale Moderne" and "Arches to Zigzags: an
Architecture ABC" are both published by Harry N Abrams. Contact Oreka Kids on
020 8884 3435 or www.orekakids.com; Purves & Purves on 020 7580 8223; and The
Conran Shop on 020 7589 7401.

copycat

Designer clothes

The label icon of kiddie fashion is Brooklyn Beckham, who has been spotted in a
Tommy Hilfiger jacket and Baby Caterpillar boots. This July, Gucci launched its
first baby range, which includes a pounds 1,125 biker jacket in soft Italian
leather.

Beauty products

Apparently, even baby-soft skin can do with some help these days. Trendy US
cosmetics company Origins has opened a baby division at its New York spa, with
products such as Diaper Service bottom balm and Bare Hugs baby massage cream.
Every fashionable skin- and haircare company has now followed suit.

Organic food

The organic food boom has hit full swing, taking baby cuisine along with it.
Miniscoff (stocked at Planet Organic; tel: 020 7727 2227) makes fresh, organic
meals for children and toddlers, which can be popped in the oven or microwave.
Baby Organix (tel: 0800 393511) has a selection of more than 50 organic
ready-made recipes.

Now that marketers have realised the huge range of products that can be targeted
at children - think designer clothes, hip accessories and even beauty products -
interior design and architecture are next in line

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Now that marketers have realised the huge range of products that can be
targeted at children - think designer clothes, hip accessories and even beauty
products - interior design and architecture are next in line

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd


                             840 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 17, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VANDERVEER AT HOME IN NIKE'S BRACKETVILLE

BYLINE: SHELDON SPENCER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 394 words


Recently Tara VanDerveer took a one-day break from her routine as Stanford
women's basketball coach to be a player on Madison Avenue.

Her acting stint can be seen in one of Nike's new "Bracketville" commercials,
which started to air last month .

"I haven't seen the one I'm in," VanDerveer said. "I've heard it's pretty
funny."

The commercials -- created by Portland advertising firm Weiden and Kennedy, and
directed by Joe Pytka -- promote Bracketville, a fictional small town populated
by college basketball icons. College mascots, including Stanford's Tree, frolic
like kids in a front yard as retired coaches Dean Smith and John Thompson sit on
a porch; the local drive-in plays the classic Duke-Kentucky regional final;
shoes grow on trees picked by former Marquette coach Al McGuire.

In VanDerveer's commercial, she, Iowa State Coach Bill Fennelly and Rutgers
Coach C. Vivian Stringer visit Bracketville Hardware. The store is staffed by
former college stars Cynthia Cooper, Sheryl Swoopes and Chamique Holdsclaw.

In VanDerveer's scene, she studies a sign that reads "Beware of the Underdog" --
a reference to the Cardinal's early-round losses to Harvard and Maine the past
two seasons.

But she shot another scene that did not make the final cut.

VanDerveer was supposed to take a pair of scissors from Holdsclaw. The scissors,
labeled the Cutmaster 2000, are supposed to be used to sever the net to
celebrate a championship.

The scene was shot several times with VanDerveer handling the scissors without
saying a word. But Pytka wanted to give VanDerveer a speaking part.

"So (Holdsclaw) says something like, 'These are the scissors I use. These should
work well,' " VanDerveer said. "I just have to say, 'Hope so.' But I blew my
line."

Pytka looked at VanDerveer and said: "Stanford, do you need to study the
script?"

The commercial was shot Jan. 20 at Fulkerson's Hardware in Somis, a small
Southern California town near Camarillo. Filming occurred "the day before the
Cal game (at Stanford). I was a little leery of it, but it worked out well
because of the timing of it," VanDerveer said. "It was a fun change of pace."

Said copywriter Ian Cohen, who collaborated with art director Matt Peterson on
the ads: "(VanDerveer) was terrific. We had a blast with her. She's one of the
more recognizable faces in women's sports."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             841 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                       March 13, 2000, Monday, Edition 1

SHOESTRING SHOPPING GUIDE

SECTION: LIFE

LENGTH: 432 words


Hope you're enjoying the March break and the extra shopping time.

 COOKSTOWN MANUFACTURER'S OUTLET MALL

We recently dropped into this mall to do some Nike shopping, and were delighted
to see a number of new stores. In addition to the established Black & Decker,
Nike, Reebok, North Face and Jones New York, the mall now offers:

Cadbury Factory Store, with a full line of products with branded merchandise,
lots of chocolate and gift baskets. Call (705) 458-4666.

Mattel Factory Outlet, with brand names and products including Fisher-Price,
Tyco, Barbie, Hot Wheels. Inventory includes new, excess, obsolete and damaged
products at great savings. Call (705) 458-4144.

Time Factor by Timex, offering 35 to 50 per cent off the suggested retail price
on Ironman Triathlon, Expedition, Guess, Liz Claiborne, Timberland, Disney and
Nautica brand watches. Call (705) 458-7064.

Baby's Room Warehouse, with cribs, furniture, bedding and accessories for the
baby's room. Call (705) 458-8050.

The mall's March Break Sidewalk Event includes special events and savings.

LOCATION: Hwy 400 north to Hwy 89 and look for the water tower. Call (705)
 458-1371. Web site: www.cookstownoutletmall.net.
 Wheelchair-accessible.

 HOURS: Weekdays 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; weekends and holidays 9 a.m. to 6
 p.m.

 VENTURE SUPERSTORE BANKRUPTCY SALE

The Loot Bag Express division remains open, but the rest of this toy store is
bankrupt. Everything is 60 per cent off, including brand name toys and kid's
running shoes featuring Brooks and LA Gear.

LOCATION: 145 West Beaver Creek Rd. (Highway 7 and Leslie St.), Unit 2,
 Richmond Hill. Call (905) 709-4370.

 HOURS: Monday to Friday 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Thursday 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.,
 Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Sunday noon to 5 p.m.

 MR. B's SPRING BREAK SALE

Lots of great products and accessories at this sale, which runs periodically
throughout the year, including Sassoon, L'Oreal, Sally Hansen and Vitabath
cosmetic and bath products as well as active/workout wear at up to 70 per cent
off. Some clothing and toys as well - in short, a little of everything.

LOCATION: 1590 Matheson Blvd. E., Unit 16 (north of Eglinton Ave., east of
 Dixie Rd.). Enter at rear. Call (905) 629-1500.

 HOURS: March 15 to 25, Monday to Friday 11 a.m. to 8 p.m., Saturday and
 Sunday 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.

 Compiled by Cathie Mostowyk, Sharon Allan and Linda Sherman. Visit our Web site
at www.toronto.com/shoestring, send e-mail to sallan@georgian.net or fax us your
favourite finds at (416) 236-4781.


LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             842 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The Weekend Australian

                           October 7, 2000, Saturday

THE GOODS

BYLINE: Sascha Hutchinson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. O02

LENGTH: 376 words


HERE's a challenge that would stump any Olympic athlete and confound any Olympic
reporter: use the words "torsion", "exigence" and "adiprene" in one sentence.
Adidas has fitted them all on a single sneaker.

Torsion is the act of twisting, exigence (the name of the shoe) means urgency,
and adiprene is unbeknown to my dictionary and presumably the invention of an
Adidas marketing genius, possibly meaning "very expensive but extremely
comfortable". Torsion footwear was trendy in the early 90s and these men's
running shoes are the sort which could be worn out with classy jeans to
illustrate that athleticism and aestheticism need not be mutually exclusive.
They're blokes' shoes, but this female reviewer would have no qualms in wearing
them.

They've got an easy fit which induces that bouncy sensation, making even a bum
like me feel there's hope for my fitness. But frankly, I think "exigence" is a
tad overdone.

When I lace up these lightweight (390g) joggers, I feel more inclined to swan
around the house marvelling at my taste and their comfort than to toil and sweat
in an exigent or urgent manner. But that probably says more about my attitude
than the shoe ... and anyway, you can't call a shoe "Sloth".

Sophie Morris

THE first thing to notice about the Nike Air Presto is the weight of the box.
With a dynamic stretch mesh outer and a heel full of air, the shoes weigh
practically nothing.

Described by Nike as "T-shirts for your feet" the Nike Air Presto is an
ultra-comfortable alternative to a traditional running shoe, perfect for a quick
jog around the block and funky enough to wear with jeans.

The unisex shoe is surprisingly simple in design, more like a sock with a sole
than a shoe, and more like slippers in terms of comfort. Being so flexible and
lightweight, the only drawback is the lack of ankle support, making them less
suitable for sports such as tennis or netball.

However, they are a comfortable, practical, lightweight sneaker that can be worn
to the gym or as a fashion item.

The Nike Presto comes in only five sizes from XS (men's size 4-6) to XL (men's
size 13-15), but its glove-like, elastic fit and highly adjustable lacing
mechanism means that five sizes will fit the bulk of the population.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             843 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The Weekend Australian

                           October 7, 2000, Saturday

THE GOODS

BYLINE: Sascha Hutchinson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. O02

LENGTH: 376 words


HERE's a challenge that would stump any Olympic athlete and confound any Olympic
reporter: use the words "torsion", "exigence" and "adiprene" in one sentence.
Adidas has fitted them all on a single sneaker.

Torsion is the act of twisting, exigence (the name of the shoe) means urgency,
and adiprene is unbeknown to my dictionary and presumably the invention of an
Adidas marketing genius, possibly meaning "very expensive but extremely
comfortable". Torsion footwear was trendy in the early 90s and these men's
running shoes are the sort which could be worn out with classy jeans to
illustrate that athleticism and aestheticism need not be mutually exclusive.
They're blokes' shoes, but this female reviewer would have no qualms in wearing
them.

They've got an easy fit which induces that bouncy sensation, making even a bum
like me feel there's hope for my fitness. But frankly, I think "exigence" is a
tad overdone.

When I lace up these lightweight (390g) joggers, I feel more inclined to swan
around the house marvelling at my taste and their comfort than to toil and sweat
in an exigent or urgent manner. But that probably says more about my attitude
than the shoe ... and anyway, you can't call a shoe "Sloth".

Sophie Morris

THE first thing to notice about the Nike Air Presto is the weight of the box.
With a dynamic stretch mesh outer and a heel full of air, the shoes weigh
practically nothing.

Described by Nike as "T-shirts for your feet" the Nike Air Presto is an
ultra-comfortable alternative to a traditional running shoe, perfect for a quick
jog around the block and funky enough to wear with jeans.

The unisex shoe is surprisingly simple in design, more like a sock with a sole
than a shoe, and more like slippers in terms of comfort. Being so flexible and
lightweight, the only drawback is the lack of ankle support, making them less
suitable for sports such as tennis or netball.

However, they are a comfortable, practical, lightweight sneaker that can be worn
to the gym or as a fashion item.

The Nike Presto comes in only five sizes from XS (men's size 4-6) to XL (men's
size 13-15), but its glove-like, elastic fit and highly adjustable lacing
mechanism means that five sizes will fit the bulk of the population.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             844 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            November 3, 2000 Friday

Competition heats up as suppliers become retailers

BYLINE: MARINA STRAUSS

SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS: MANAGING; RETAILING; Pg. M1

LENGTH: 920 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


When John Forzani set out to buy a television set this year, he avoided going to
a Sony-owned store.

As a retailer himself, he doesn't favour suppliers that set up their own shops.

So Mr. Forzani, chairman of sporting-goods chain Forzani Group Ltd. in Calgary,
instead bought a $3,500, 30-inch-screen Sony television at Sounds Around, a
local consumer electronics store that carries a lot of the brand.

"I'm fundamentally opposed to manufacturers being in the retail business," Mr.
Forzani says.

"It's a conflict . . . It makes it extremely difficult to compete with them."

Such views haven't stopped Sony of Canada Ltd. from forging ahead with 72 stores
across the country. It's a unique situation for the company worldwide, which has
few corporate-owned outlets elsewhere.

On Saturday, Sony opened its flagship store at Toronto Eaton Centre, a sleek,
brightly lit haven for gadget-seekers with lots of televisions, stereo sets and
PlayStations blaring as interactivity reaches a new level in retail.

Still, the transformation of supplier into retailer is a delicate issue for many
merchants because these manufacturers' stores snag precious sales. Sporting
goods maker Nike Inc. is among the high-profile names that also run their own
stores.

The issue is heating up as more manufacturers, Sony and Nike among them, have
set up Web sites and started to peddle their products on-line directly to
consumers, bypassing the retailer.

Still, Sony officials maintain they have found a balance between running their
retail business and appeasing rival dealers.

"We're not about stealing market share from our dealers," says Blair Severn,
national marketing manager at Toronto-based Sony. The stores are a showcase for
the brand and, in most cases, shoppers compare prices elsewhere before making a
purchase, he says.

What is more, Sony stores don't undercut dealers' prices and give their
employees incentives not to discount, he says.

Retailers' resistance to the Sony stores has eased since the company took full
control of the chain five years ago, he says.

Indeed, dealers seem resigned to competing head-on with Sony.

"I don't like it, but we've learned to deal with it," says Tony Scaffeo, general
manager of Sounds Around Inc., which has four stores in Calgary - all of them
within blocks of a Sony outlet.

On the other hand, Mr. Scaffeo acknowledges that competition is so fierce in
consumer electronics that "if it wasn't Sony, it would be somebody else . . .
Maybe they're better than somebody else."

Future Shop Ltd. also prefers to tangle with the devil it knows, spokeswoman
Lori De Cou says. The 88-outlet chain even sees a silver lining in the Sony
retail presence: the supplier displays its products so well that it becomes a
kind of advertisement for the goods, she says.

The polished look of the Sony stores - especially newer ones such as at Toronto
Eaton Centre - has pushed Future Shop to sharpen its own outlets, she adds.

Shoppers at the new Toronto Sony store seem clearly impressed, although most are
checking out the competition, too.

John Stokes, 23, drops by the store every morning to play a half-hour of games
on the hot new PlayStation II before heading to his construction job.

"I waste my time here," he laughs as he presses buttons to manipulate the NHL
2001 players on the screen. He's thinking of buying the console ($450) and a
game ($80) as a Christmas present for his five- and three-year-old children, but
hasn't made any commitments yet.

Leslie Vineberg, a chef at Splendido restaurant, looked at Future Shop and the
Bay before shelling out for two $150 speakers at Sony - after having convinced
the store to drop the 7-per-cent goods and services tax. "It's like buying a car
- you always ask for something. I'm sure I could have bargained more."

She liked the presentation at the Sony store and the fact that the products were
set up so she could listen to them. "You have to have it accessible to everybody
so you can catch them before they have time to walk out of the store," the
47-year-old says.

The story behind Sony stores in Canada dates back more than 40 years, when
Winnipeg businessman Albert Cohen became the first foreign retailer to be
granted a distribution deal with electronics giant Sony Corp. to sell transistor
radios. In 1981, Sony stores were created when the manufacturer bought an
interest in the failing dealer chain.

Still, Sony stores lost money every year until 1999, Mr. Severn says. The
turnaround was helped by consumers' rush over past years to by the latest home
electronics toys. As well, since Sony took over the outlets in 1995, it has
hired retailing and marketing veterans to pitch the brand in the same way Gap
sells its fashion label, Mr. Severn says.

Stores are being relocated to more fashionable malls and revamped to blend the
entertainment side of the Sony empire with the technical side. Consumers can't
miss the large posters of Ricky Martin and other Sony stars; they can try out
cameras and other gadgets or take a break in the darkened home theatre at the
back with large-screen TV sets. Research found that consumers felt "trapped" in
small glassed-in trial centres with just one television, Mr. Severn says.

This week, Sony is trying to lure even more people to the stores by mailing $10
gift certificates to its best 60,000 customers. Of those certificates, 21 have
values of up to $10,000. The promotion won't make life any easier for rival
dealers.
Readers can send e-mail to:
mstrauss@globeandmail.ca

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2000 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             847 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

Bauer Nike slashes: With closing of head office, hockey-equipment maker has
shrunk from employer of 2,200 in 1994 to 850 today

BYLINE: FRANCOIS SHALOM

SOURCE: The Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. D1 / BREAK

LENGTH: 769 words


Bauer Nike Hockey Inc. has slashed 900 jobs at its Saint- Jerome plant over the
last four years and will close its Montreal head office in the spring with the
loss of 10 jobs, company president Gary Kiedaisch said yesterday.

The skate and hockey-equipment manufacturer, owned by footwear giant Nike Inc.,
has already halved the number of its Decarie Blvd. office employees to 30 in the
last year, said Kiedaisch in a telephone interview from Munich, where he's on a
business trip.

Recent developments have not been kind to Montreal as an "oligopoly" in the
global hockey-equipment-manufacturing industry, of which it controls about
two-thirds.

Last week, it was disclosed that the Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec
appears to have called in a $ 136-million loan to Bauer Nike's chief rival, The
Hockey Co., revoking a previously agreed-to extension on the loan.

The company now has to find another lender, or renegotiate its Caisse loan, even
as its sales are dipping and the hockey boom in the U.S. abates.

The two Montreal companies have cornered an estimated 62 per cent of the world's
$675-million-a-year hockey-equipment market.

Of the remaining 30 Bauer Nike head-office employees, about 20 will transfer to
the company's manufacturing plant in Saint-Jerome, and the remaining 10 will
start work at Nike's distribution centre in Greenland, N.H. The company's
Saint-Jerome factory still employs 300 people, who make the company's high-end
Bauer and Nike skates.

In-Line Skating Fad Fades

But a drastic drop in the in-line skating fad's growth rate and outsourcing to
Asia, where Oregon-based Nike makes almost all its shoes, have claimed about
three-quarters of its former work force of 1,200. In addition, Bauer Nike axed
its skate-plant in Cambridge, Ont., in 1997 at the cost of 400 jobs.

Of the 2,200 people employed by Canstar Sports Inc. in 1994, when Nike bought
the Montreal company for $546 million, there are about 850 left.

Most of the cuts came under Pierre Boivin, president of Canstar before being
named president of the Montreal Canadiens hockey team in August 1999.

Kiedaisch took over from Boivin a year ago. The Boston native was previously
president of Bolle Inc., a family-owned French eyewear company which he took
public.

Nike's purchase price for Canstar represented a $ 205-million premium - about
$10 per share - over the company's going price in December 1994. Most observers
said at the time that Nike had heavily overpaid for the company, which had
annual sales of over $200 million.

Two years later, in December 1996, Nike president Tom Clarke sounded an alert
during an otherwise upbeat teleconference call, saying the multinational's
Canadian subsidiary needed to be "repositioned."

Asked specifically by The Gazette whether that meant Bauer Nike was "going
Asian" like its parent company, Boivin replied with a qualified "no."

He said that "repositioning" meant juggling the company's products, stressing
that there would be "no major transfer" of production to Asia.

And, he added, "the bottom line is that there are no plans for layoffs."

But market imperatives - essentially low wages in China compared with high
production costs in Saint-Jerome - seem to have won out.

Kiedaisch said "that's one of the challenges you have at a company like this,
you can't always forecast what business is going to be like down the road."

He added that the head-office cuts were announced in the trade press on Oct. 29,
and that "further explanations" were given to employees three weeks ago.

Kiedaisch said there's "no chance" Saint-Jerome will shutter, and added there
are no more layoffs planned. The plant will keep making top-end skates, as well
as hockey helmets.

"Bauer is a hockey company, and hockey is so Canadian," he said. "It's very,
very important we maintain a Canadian culture, a Canadian presence."

The Bauer Nike offices at the Ericsson cell-phone company's building on Decarie,
where Bauer moved to under his predecessor, "are really quite beautiful, pretty
upscale," said Kiedaisch.

"I felt a little bit isolated, removed from our operation's facilities."

The restructuring is intended to place executives close to the heart of the
operations they manage, he added, rather than have them cut off in splendid
isolation, "coming down the mountain like God."

"You missed the face-to-face dynamics which make a company run," added
Kiedaisch. "There will no longer be a headquarters, per se."

Some head-office personnel will move to their new location on April 15, others
on June 20.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Business

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             850 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Now, it's "business class' travel for illegals alien smuggling"

                                January 6, 2000


ILLEGAL CHINESE IMMIGRANTS

Cargo "class': US$ 30,000 Container "class': US$ 60,000

US officials who detained recent illegal immigrants say they come dressed in
Nike tennis shoes and some had mobile phones and compact disc players

LOS ANGELES -Illegal immigrants being smuggled aboard container ships tend to be
better dressed and seem to enjoy better living conditions during their voyage
than those brought on traditional cargo ships, according to US officials.

Officials who have seen both types of smuggling said the containers bearing
illegal immigrants tended to be more sanitary, with makeshift latrines and had
better provisions, such as bedding and pillows.

Old-style smuggling ships used to pack about 200 people together, while each
container usually carries fewer than 25.

Those immigrants detained recently were also better dressed, wearing like Nike
tennis shoes. Some had mobile phones and compact disc players.

US officials, however, could not say whether this meant they were more
well-to-do or that they had been provided with items like proper clothing to
blend in better when they finally go on to the street.

Smugglers charge as much as US$ 60,000 (S$ 100,000) per person for container
space, about twice the fee charged for those who come on smuggling boats,
according to US authorities.

The exhorbitant fee, however, does not guarantee a pleasant journey in a
container. For some, it remains a daunting journey.

They may have started their voyage with blankets, pillows and supplies of food
and water, but by the time they arrive in the US, conditions had deteriorated to
what the South China Morning Post newspaper, quoting US coast guard officials,
described as "unbearable".

A group of immigrants detained off Long Beach, California, on Sunday left a
container smeared with excrement and vomit. Officials said they had been at sea
for 20 days.

Officials have also been examining container smuggling since early last year.

"It seems to be a troubling new trend," said Ms Sharon Gavin, a spokesman for
the Immigration and Naturalisation Service (INS). "We're concerned that this may
increase," she added.

In recent cases, soft-top containers about the size of a tractor-trailer were
used to carry Chinese stowaways who paid as much as US$ 70,000 each, more than
twice the amount charged by people operating ships devoted to smuggling.

A cargo ship can carry as many as 1,000 of these containers, which can make it
difficult to detect stowaways. The smugglers also often lash down heavy canvas
covers on the containers.

There was no evidence that the ship owners were involved in the smuggling
operation but Ms Virginia Kice, another INS spokesman, said federal officials
were looking into making shipping companies more responsible for the illegal
immigrants by holding them liable for some of the costs of detention.

While the federal authorities said they would increase enforcement efforts to
combat container smuggling, Ms Kice said the smugglers' change in approach was
an indication that other enforcement efforts had been effective.

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 518 words

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


                             852 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                         May 10, 2000, Wednesday, FINAL

Cochrane company takes off on right foot: Tiny business to sign big deal with
Nike

BYLINE: Tamara Gignac, Calgary Herald

SECTION: News; A1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 538 words


A start-up company operating out of a residential-area garage in Cochrane is
today expected to sign a multimillion-dollar deal with Nike to supply foot
sensors for the sports company's line of running shoes.

Dynastream Innovations Inc. has patented a wireless foot sensor unit which, when
mounted on a shoe, can communicate with a specially designed wristwatch to
calculate a runner's speed and distance travelled.

The technology is intended to appeal to serious-minded athletes who until now
have used clunky pedometers to gauge how far they've jogged, says Kip Fyfe,
Dynastream's chief executive.

With the new foot sensor, designed to fit over the shoe's lacing box, runners
will be able to vary their routes, pace and stride length.

The sensor is actually a series of battery-operated computer chips mounted on a
circuit board, very similar to the type of technology used to inflate air bags
in vehicles.

The concept was born out of a casual conversation between Fyfe's brother, Ken, a
mechanical engineer at the University of Alberta, and Ken's wife, a seasoned
marathon runner.

Ken was wracking his brain for a project to give his students when his spouse
suggested he invent a better way for runners to train. He passed the idea on to
his brother, who in December 1998 formed a new company to get a patent to market
quickly.

With a total of eight employees and little capital to back their venture,
Dynastream now faced the challenge of shopping their idea around to different
sports equipment manufacturers.

With no office, the company met top Nike executives around Vicki Brilz's kitchen
table.

''There were times we were ready to let the whole idea go away,'' said Brilz,
Dynastream's vice- president of marketing. ''But then we'd just pick up the
pieces and start again.''

The fledgling company's persistence paid off. Under the terms of the deal, it
retains ownership of the patent while Nike handles all manufacturing and sales
development issues. Nike expects to release the product in volume, although
neither company could confirm numbers at this early stage.

''Initial orders look pretty good,'' said Fyfe.

The foot sensor and watch are expected to retail for about $200, and will hit
stores in time for the Christmas retail season, said Brilz.

Dynastream's technology shows a lot of promise, said Ken Smiley, a senior
analyst with the Giga Information Group, but is likely to be relegated to a
niche market. ''I think (the shoes) will stay a kind of a novelty item, unless
they become a status symbol within society as the Michael Jordan Nike shoes did
at one point.''

But foot sensors also offer Nike a way to differentiate itself from competitors
Reebok and Adidas, added Smiley.

Sensor-based electronic devices have been slow to take off because processors
are typically too costly to be manufactured in volume for small consumer
applications. But as battery life gets better and the silicon used in processors
gets cheaper, many believe products like Dynastream's will revolutionize the way
people live their lives.

Dynastream said it will now focus on promoting its technology for use in markets
such as video gaming, smart prosthetics, mapping and security.


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CP Color Photo: Grant Black, Calgary Herald / This new device invented
by a Cochrane firm keeps track of how far a runner has travelled.

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             856 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 29, 2000, Friday

The Test

BYLINE: James Collard

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 429 words


Public Image

Red shirts and white shorts, stupid. Where have you been? But the kit is in the
news once more - not for another heroic victory by the sterling team who wear
it, but because Manchester United have just signed a deal with the American
sportswear company Nike. 9/10

Intelligence

Commercial savvy, certainly. The deal will net the club about Pounds 300
million, which is a load of lucre by anyone's standards. And it adds up to what
football commentators call a big war chest - enough money to keep the club well
stocked with fresh new talent - assuming that those meddlesome regulators in
Brussels don't succeed in abolishing the transfer fee system. 9/10

Compassion

Not enough to get in the way of good business sense. For what's good news for
Manchester United's shareholders is not good news for Umbro, the
Manchester-based sportswear company that has manufactured United's kits for the
past eight years. The Women's Institute might want us all to Buy Local, Buy
British, but that cuts no ice at Old Trafford. 6/10

Sex appeal

In Umbro, in Nike or in a Gucci suit off the field, there is no shortage of
eye-candy at Man Utd. David Beckham would look good in a grass skirt. But
perhaps the new Nike design (making its debut at the start of the 2002/3 season)
could go for short, tight little shorts (not unlike hotpants) a la Seventies. It
is such a shame for these boys to be hiding their lights under a bushell. 9/10

Humour

It is no laughing matter. Not if you are Umbro, surely. They must be rueing the
day. 4/10

Family Values

Fairly expensive. Right now the "home infant kit" that your son demands every
birthday will set you back the best part of 30 quid, and it is hardly likely to
get any cheaper, is it? 7/10

Antecedents

The previous record deal for a football kit was for Brazil's national team,
which was $ 100 million over a ten-year period. The Manchester United deal is
worth three times more. 9/10

Durability

Even if Man Utd has a disappointing few seasons (hard to imagine, true, but
think of Liverpool, just down the road - stars in the Keegan years, but slightly
lacklustre until recently) the deal is for 15 years. Smart move, that. 9/10

Ambition

Loads of it. Clearly this is all about securing the club's long-term financial
security and super-club status. 9/10

Future prospects

The team seems stronger than ever - glamorous, successful, stylish - with a
truly global following. Expect more amazing merchandising deals. Oh, and let's
hope more goals. 9/10

Score

80%


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited


                             858 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Sunday Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                            November 5, 2000, Sunday

United just do it

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 87

LENGTH: 180 words


MANCHESTER United, the world's richest soccer club, reported yesterday they had
signed a sponsorship and merchandising deal with Nike worth more than $827
million.

United, who have won the English league title six times in the last eight years
and were European champions in 1999, said they would grant exclusive rights to
sponsor their gear, manufacture and sell merchandise and operate Manchester
United's existing retail operations.

The agreement starts on August 1, 2002, when the club's current sponsorship
contract with Umbro expires and will run for 13 years, although Nike will have
the option to end the deal in 2008.

Meanwhile, Alex Ferguson said his current deputy Steve McClaren was ready to
take over as coach of Manchester United when the Scot steps down in 2002.

"It's not my decision but I think that the credentials are there. Steve's at the
stage when he can make a step like that," Ferguson said.

McClaren, appointed last week as England's joint caretaker manager was put in
charge for United's 3-0 League Cup victory against Watford.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: STE

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             859 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                          September 6, 2000, Wednesday

Carl back on podium

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 63 words


NINE-time gold medallist Carl Lewis will be a guest at the Sydney Olympics,
courtesy of two big sponsors.

He is being flown to Sydney by Nike and McDonalds to speak at corporate
functions and appear for photo calls.

Sportswear giant Nike is also negotiat ing with triple gold medallist Jackie
Joyner-Kersee, star of the long jump and heptathlon, to attend the Games.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             862 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 6, 2000, Wednesday

FOOTBALL: FERGUSON CONSIDERING ROVING ROLE WITH NIKE

BYLINE: Alan Nixon

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 328 words


ALEX FERGUSON may turn his back on Manchester United when his contract expires
in two years' time and join forces with the sportswear manufacturer Nike, which
is head-hunting him to become its football ambassador.

Ferguson did not confirm the Nike approach but he said: "I've got a lot of
offers already. One offer I've got is really staggering. It would be a four
-year contract for a huge amount of money and would involve a lot of
travelling."

Leicester City will meet Uefa officials in Geneva today to discuss their growing
safety fears for the European tie away to Red Star Belgrade on 28 September.

The Foreign Office has advised Leicester not to travel because of political
unrest in Yugoslavia, but Uefa, European game's governing body, has insisted
that the game will go ahead as planned.

The Foreign Office fears a breakdown in public order taking place if Slobodan
Milosevic loses power over the country in the imminent general election.

Leeds United plan to take 500 fans to next month's Champions' League game
against Besiktas in Istanbul, but the club's chairman, Peter Ridsdale, has
insisted any English fans travelling independently should be sent home. Ridsdale
has agreed to let 500 Turkish supporters attend the Elland Road leg.

Crystal Palace and Nottingham Forest have been charged with misconduct by the
FA. Both clubs have been charged the fracas on the pitch after Palace were
awarded a late penalty in their First Division match at Selhurst Park on Bank
Holiday Monday.

Better news for Palace was the acquisition of the Latvian international
goalkeeper Aleksander Kolinka for pounds 600,000 from Skonto Riga. Kolinka has
been training with Alan Smith's side and played in the World Cup qualifying
match against Scotland last weekend. His Latvia team-mate, Igor Stepanovs, a
central defender, joined Arsenal earlier this week.

The West Ham striker Paul Kitson is set to join First Division Birmingham City.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd


                             863 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 14, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER NEWS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 176 words

* Legendary rock and roll star Bo Diddley has sued sneaker giant Nike Inc. for
using his name and image without permission.

The 71-year-old musician, whose real name is Ellas McDaniel, filed charges
Wednesday in Manhattan, N.Y., alleging Nike made hundreds of thousands of
dollars from sales of T-shirts bearing Diddley's name, likeness and the
inscription "You Don't Know Diddley" without authorization.

* Francis Ford Coppola's lawsuit against the late Carl Sagan and Warner Bros.
for a share of "Contact" book and movie profits was dismissed because it was
filed too late.

The 1996 lawsuit claimed that Coppola came up with the idea in 1975 for a TV
program called "First Contact," about Earth's connection with extraterrestrials,
and that he had a contract with Sagan to develop a script.

* "We asked her what a girl really wants. Unfortunately, it wasn't any of us,"
said Howie Dorough of the Backstreet Boys, introducing "What a Girl Wants"
chart-buster Christina Aguilera at Monday night's taping of VH1's "Divas: Men
Strike Back."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: People in the News

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             864 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                       January 7, 2000, Friday, Edition 1

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 162 words



Today

in Business

embraces the Web The World Bank says it plans to sell a $3 billion (U.S.) global

 bond offering over the Internet. Page E2

 Nike recalls

soccer shirts Soccer jerseys sold in Europe by Nike Inc. being recalled after a
 report they contain a chemical that can lead to infertility. Page
 E5

 Commentary

of DRIPS and SPPs If you're tired of paying commissions to brokers there are a
 couple of ways to buy stocks by dealing directly with the issuing
 company, writes Ellen Roseman. Page E2

 A Web site with

customer service On-line retailers could learn a lot from Quixtar Canada Ltd.,
 which rounds out its Web site with real live customer service
 people, writes Robert Cribb. Page E3

 Technology

from Web names Like prospectors in a gold rush, entrepreneurs are digging into
 the dictionary for dot-com nuggets as the Internet domain names
 business becomes a fast way to a fortune. Page E5


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             872 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            August 5, 2000, Saturday

A tiger in the bank;
$6 billion man

BYLINE: MICHAEL CAMERON

SECTION: WEEKEND; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1547 words


THE television commercial that made golf cool almost never happened.

It was in June last year when Tiger Woods was asked to make an ad for Nike at a
private course in Florida.

In between takes on the fairway, the golfer amused himself and entertained the
film crew by nonchalantly bouncing a golf ball off a sand wedge.

The producers of the commercial were amazed at the feat and the original script
was discarded.

A few months later TV viewers worldwide were marveling at the sight of Woods
juggling a ball on a narrow club head while moving the club behind his back and
in between his legs.

As a finale, he effortlessly chipped the ball up to chest height and hammered it
down a fairway.

Even those who had never visited a golf course could not help but be impressed
by the dexterity and skill of Eldrick "Tiger" Woods. An icon was born.

Since that time, he has won both the United States and British Opens and
completed the game's grand slam, transforming himself from golfing celebrity to
one-man golfing industry.

He has become the most influential figure in world sports, an inspiration to
millions, the new Mohammed Ali, the new Michael Jordan.

Over the next years and decades, Woods' earning power will dwarf all those
before him.

Last month ESPN Magazine projected that Woods' lifetime earnings, including
prize money and sponsorships, could  reach $US6 billion, with three-quarters of
the money supposedly coming from product endorsements.

If Woods is the master of the art of golf, then Nike founder Phil Knight is the
genius of the science of sports marketing.

The sportswear company, based in Portland, Oregon, decided to give Tiger a $US40
million five-year-contract, just on the

strength of his early performances after he turned professional.

Many industry observers thought Nike was insane to offer him such a deal. At the
time, golf accounted for only 2% of the company's sales and Woods was far from a
star.

Even after he won the US Masters in 1997, the Tiger Woods phenomenon was still
not a sure thing. A range of colourful clothing released at the time, carrying
Tiger's moniker, failed dismally.

Traditional golfers were not prepared to don Tiger's radical designs. The black
kids of Detroit were not about to swap their Jordan air shoes and basketball
shorts for golf slacks. Nike was struggling to get a foothold in the golf
merchandise market. There had to be another way. There was.

At the end of last year, Nike began a new campaign, targeting Woods' golf
products toward a high-end customer. It was a big success.

Nike's golf business grew from an estimated $US200 million two years ago to
$US300 million this year. The company also developed its own golf ball. Woods
switched to using the Nike golf ball in June and shortly after won the US Open
by a record margin.

Until then Nike had enjoyed little success in its attempts to break into the
golf ball market, controlling just 1% of the $US1 billion business.

Now the company predicts a 10% share within a couple of years, won at the
expense of Nike's competitors. It is also selling Tiger Woods golf shirts, clubs
and carry bags as fast as it can have them made.

Just to ease the burden of any guilt the young golfer may feel over switching
from using Titleist balls, Nike has increased his five-year contract from $US40
million to $US90 million.

He also has deals with American Express, Rolex, Buick cars, Wheaties cereal and
Electronic Arts, which makes a golfing video game with the Tiger image.

Woods' career income from tournaments -- $US20 million, including $US5 million
this year so far -- is starting to look paltry.

Nike clearly considers its money well spent and with justification. The
company's share price, once in the doldrums, is close to $50 on the New York
stock market, with a $10 rise since Woods' recent victories. The Woods effect,
on paper at least, has added more than $2 billion to the value of the company.

Little wonder that Mark McCormack, the chairman of the International Marketing
Group, says Woods was a pioneer in professional sport "in the spirit of Bill
Gates".

Before his victories in the US and British Opens, Tiger Woods' father Earl
estimated he could be earning $1.5m per weekend for sponsored appearances.

But Woods has shown repeatedly that money is not his top priority. He refused to
take part in US television advertisements recently out of solidarity with an
actors' strike. He devotes much of his free time to the Tiger Woods Foundation,
touring at his own expense holding golf clinics for young, often disadvantaged
children.

He has not yet turned 25 and Woods appears to have done the impossible -- making
golf cool to young people. In the process he has broken down the sport's crusty
image as a pursuit for red-faced middle-aged white men, wearing bad clothes and
struggling with expanding waistlines.

After the victory in last month's US Open, the president of the NBC Sports
television company, Dick Ebersol, said Woods had completed the last step in a
process to join Ali and Jordan as "the only athletes in the TV generation to be
larger than life".

The British Open victory, making Woods the youngest holder of all four major
golf championships, only added to his status.

"Tiger has no opposition, only a field," wrote George Vecsey in The New York
Times. "Ali had Frazier. Navratilova had Evert . . . Tiger has only himself and
his caddie and his touch and his inner light, but that is enough."

A generation of Tiger Woods disciples, young urbanites (particularly from
minorities) and increasing numbers of women, are coming to the game for the
first time. Even fashion companies such as Gucci, Prada and Tommy Hilfiger --
which once regarded golf as anti-fashion -- are jumping on the bandwagon.

Michael Caruso, editor in chief of Maximum Golf, a new monthly magazine, says
Woods' appeal is universal.

"As golf has gotten younger, with the advent of Tiger Woods, it has also gotten
sexier," he said. "For the first time, 57% of players are under 40. Younger men
don't have the gender barriers that older guys have, the ones who are usually
playing to escape their wives. There's a lot more flirting out on the course.
People are finding golf sexy." Jordan, Pele, Ali and Tiger Woods are among only
a handful of

athletes who would be instantly recognised anywhere in the world.

Woods is eager not to over-saturate the market. He says he is content with what
he has got.

"I don't get the feeling Tiger or his management team wants or needs more
endorsements," said Rick Burton, chairman of the James Warsaw Sports Marketing
Center at the University of Oregon. "He could have 20 or 30 sponsorships by now
but they would blur together."

The rise of Tiger Woods the businessman has followed his new-found confidence on
and off the course.

This new spirit is put down to his girlfriend, the shy Joanna Jagoda,
22-year-old daughter of a Polish immigrant.

The couple live together at his palatial $5 million estate in Orlando, Florida,
where they shun nightclubs and wild parties, preferring to enjoy the company of
friends.

Jagoda's new home with Woods is a long way from her modest upbringing in the
run-down fringes of the unfashionable Los Angeles suburb of Encino.

In high school, with her sun-streaked blond hair, long legs and movie-star
smile, she was a cheerleader. She went on to the University of California, Santa
Barbara, to study political science.

She met Woods on a blind date three years ago, organised by one of her college
friends. She knew nothing about golf, let alone the increasing popularity of her
date.

The relationship grew slowly. Between tournaments, Woods' limousine was often
seen outside her parent's two-bedroom home in LA.

Joanna had planned to go to law school when she decided instead to throw in her
lot with the Stanford University-educated Woods and follow him around the world.

Friends said Woods' recovery from his post-Masters slump was largely due to
Jagoda.

"Tiger made a 180 turn-around with his life," a friend said. "Gone were the wild
nights in glitzy discos, dancing with sexy bar bimbos until the wee hours. He
realised the bar scene only brought him groupies and gold diggers and quickly
tired of it."

Like her famous boyfriend, Jagoda shuns casual contact with strangers,
particularly those from the press. There are more photographs of Woods hugging
and kissing trophies than of him showing her affection. When together in public,
they are surrounded by bodyguards. There have been reports of death threats over
their inter-racial romance. (He calls himself "Calibasian," a mix of Caucasian,
African-American, American-Indian and Asian.)

Woods says he warned Jagoda about the media.

"Unfortunately, it is an intrusion in our lives and it's very tough to handle at
times, especially since she didn't cause any of it," he said. "I'm in the
spotlight and they're trying to get to me through her."

While the couple are inseparable, rumours of an engagement infuriated Woods
earlier this year. He does not want to rush in to marriage.

"It's not true," he said. "I'm here to tell you that right now. Let's put an end
to this crap."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             874 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         Morning Star (Wilmington, NC)

                              June 9, 2000, Friday

Film clips / 'Summer Catch' is a wrap; SAG strikes again: Union protests Nike
shoot

BYLINE: ALLISON BALLARD

SECTION: Lifestyle; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 620 words


The local chapter of the Screen Actors Guild picketed a production at Screen
Gems Studios this week. The members said the action was to protest a Weiden &
Kennedy shoot for Nike. Studio representatives said only that the shoot was not
a commercial.

"The SAG issue is a national issue," said Gerald Waller, vice president of
studio operations. "We strongly support the First Amendment. At the same time,
we're business as usual. We support SAG and we support our clients."

The picketing on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday didn't disrupt the production.

"This was just to let them know we know they were there," said Patti Pocsik,
Carolina Regional representative for the union.

SAG and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists began a strike
May 1 against the American Association of Advertising Agencies and the
Association of National Advertisers. At issue is "pay-per-play" for commercials
for cable television (where performers are paid every time an ad airs) and
commercial use on the Internet.

This week's picket was the second local action in the strike. The first was on
the set of a Bristol-Myers Squibb commercial on May 24.

***

The fireworks flying over downtown Wilmington on Sunday were courtesy of the
Summer Catch production. The display was part of an Almost Done with Filming
Party at the Reel Cafe in downtown Wilmington. The film is scheduled to wrap
Saturday.

The ending of filming means, unfortunately, that actors such as Freddie Prinze
Jr., Jessica Biel, Marc Blucas (Buffy the Vampire Slayer), Brian Dennehy,
Matthew Lillard, Wilmer Valderrama (That '70s Show) and Fred Ward, will no
longer be out and about in Wilmington and Southport.

***

Filming of The Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys, though, may help fill the void
left by Summer Catch. The feature, starring Jodie Foster, has been filming in
and around Wilmington since May 24. The film is being produced by Ms. Foster's
company, Egg Pictures.

***

There are a bevy of choices this month for local actors who yearn for roles in
independent features. There are three -- yes, three -- local projects holding
auditions in the weeks ahead.Auditions for Trusting Jack are scheduled to
continue Saturday and Sunday at the Coast Line Convention Center in downtown
Wilmington. They'll be held from noon to 6 p.m. in the Measurement Inc. offices.

The film, written and directed by Melissa Page Jones, is about a woman who must
learn to deal with the abuse inflicted on her by her father. Producers are
looking for people of all ages to play principal actors, one-liners and extras.
Those interested are asked to bring a headshot or other picture and must be
prepared to read from a script. The film is scheduled to begin filming July 31
in the Southport/ Oak Island area.

Another project, Ball of Wax, is billed as a dark drama about a fictional pro
baseball team. The film is the latest project by Daniel Krause, director of
1998's Jefftowne. Auditions will be held 1-4 p.m. Wednesday and 7-10 p.m. June
21 at the Community Arts Center. There are roles for men ages 22-65 and women
ages 16-35. Filming should begin in October in Wilmington.

And finally, there's Ding-a-ling-less -- the story of an emasculated man by
filmmaker Onur Tukel. There will be auditions held the last three weekends in
June.

Boys between the ages of 6 and 9 are needed as are adults of all ages. Those
interested are asked to call 763-7554, 397-0333 or 762-6619 to schedule an
appointment. Also, headshots can be sent to Ding-a-ling-less, 403 South 5th.
Ave. Apt. B, Wilmington, N.C. 28401.

Allison Ballard covers the film beat for the Morning Star. Call her at 343-2376
or e-mail allison.ballardwilmingtonstar.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Wilmington Star-News, Inc.


                             884 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 12, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

PLUS: H.S. BASKETBALL -- NIKE SUPER SIX;
Rice Is Set to Play In Garden Feature

BYLINE: By RON DICKER

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 169 words


Instead of being stuffed with major college prospects, it now has three. Instead
of pummeling every opponent, it has shown its vulnerability by losing two games.

But Rice High School of Manhattan (10-2) is still the team to watch in
Saturday's Nike Super Six tournament at Madison Square Garden. The Raiders,
ranked 12th in USA Today, take on the 6-2 St. Patrick's of Elizabeth, N.J., in
the last game of a triple-header pitting New Jersey schools against New York
schools.

It's just taking us a longer time to get used to each other, guard Andre Barrett
of Rice said yesterday at a luncheon in Manhattan.

Barrett, a point guard, has committed to Seton Hall. His teammate, forward Kyle
Cuffe, has signed with St. John's. And Rice's other starting forward, Andre
Sweet, is reportedly being courted by Duke.

In the other games, Marist of Bayonne, N.J. (1-5) plays the Westchester
powerhouse Mount Vernon (8-0) and St. Anthony of Jersey City (6-2) faces Kennedy
of the Bronx (12-2).   RON DICKER


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             893 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             April 23, 2000, Sunday

FOOTBALL: NIKE EYE POUNDS 5M LEEDS KIT DEAL

BYLINE: Alan Nixon

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 63

LENGTH: 112 words


LEEDS are heading for a massive cash windfall - with top sportswear firms
bidding to give them a fortune for the shirt off their backs.

David O'Leary could even come in for an extra transfer fund boost in the summer
as talks are advanced with at least one company.

The deal between Leeds and Puma runs out in the summer of 2001, but already the
bidding war is on - with American giants Nike tipped to succeed.

Since Leeds signed the last five-year contract in 1996 their popularity has shot
up and the new deal could reach pounds 4-pounds 5m a season.

Puma won't give up without a fight. They have just bought up Everton's
manufacturing contract.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.
